Laszlo is afraid of the dark. The dark is not afraid of Laszlo. Laszlo lives in a house. The dark lives in the basement. One night, the dark comes upstairs to Laszlo's room, and Laszlo goes down to the This is the story of how Laszlo stops being afraid of the dark. 

When a tiny fish shoots into view wearing a round blue topper (which happens to fit him perfectly), trouble could be following close behind. So it's a good thing that enormous fish won't wake up. And even if he does, it's not like he'll ever know what humor swims to the fore as the best-selling follows his breakout debut with another return 

Lois Ehlert The 26 characters in this rhythmic, rhyming baby book are a lowercase alphabet with attitude. "A told b, and b told c, 'I'll meet you at the top of the coconut tree'"--which probably seemed like a good idea until the other 23 members of the gang decided to follow suit. Lois Ehlert's chunky block illustrations show the luxuriant green palm return 

Pete the Cat is wearing his favorite shirt—the one with the four totally groovy buttons. But when one falls off, does Pete cry? Goodness, no! He just keeps on singing his song—after all, what could be groovier than three groovy buttons? Count down with Pete in this rocking new story from the creators of the bestselling Pete the Cat books. 

This looks like an ordinary box full of ordinary But it turns out it isn't. 

Meet He's always been a happy little utensil. But lately, he feels like life as a spoon just isn't cutting it. He thinks Fork, Knife, and The Chopsticks all have it so much better than him. But do they? And what do about Spoon? A book for all ages, serves as a gentle reminder to celebrate what makes us each special. 

Birds come in all sizes, shapes, and colors. Birds are magic. Birds are everywhere. If you listen very carefully you will hear them, no matter where you live. And if you look very closely you will see them, no matter where you are. And if you can't go outside right this minute, you can always read this book! 

Sometimes the nickname Little Mouse just doesn't seem to fit, like when you feel as as a lion or as as an elephant. Other times, it's nice to be quiet and cozy, cuddly and dozy, especially when you're snuggled up on Mommy's lap. Mommy's little mouse. 

Hi, I'm Goat. Things were just fine around here until UNICORN showed So what if he can Or make it rain And turn stuff into Big deal. I can do some cool stuff too, Hey! What are you doing? Why are you opening the He's just going to tell you how great he is. Blah, blah, Go ahead. Just don't say I didn't warn Dopey Unicorn. 

Much to the chagrin of Pigeon, little Duckling uses very polite manners to request a cookie, and actually gets one. Filled with righteous fury, Pigeon loses his temper and complains bitterly about this terrible state of affairs. However, things aren't what they seem, and Duckling has a secret plan! Part of the bestselling Pigeon series by genius children's book author return 

The Twilight Zone to the carrot patch in this clever picture book parable about a rabbit who fears his favorite treats are out to get him. Rabbit loves carrots—especially Crackenhopper Field He eats them on the way to He eats them going to Little He eats them walking Until the day the carrots start following him...or are return 

Winner of the 2012 Randolph Caldecott This York Bestseller and York Best Illustrated Book relates a story about love and loss as only Chris Rashcka can tell it. Any child who has ever had a beloved toy break will relate to Daisy's anguish when her favorite ball is destroyed by a bigger dog. In the tradition of his nearly wordless picture book return 

A bear almost gives up his search for his missing hat until he remembers something important. 

One bright spring day a little white rabbit sets out from home on an adventure. What does he find? Look! Everything is new.Anything is possible. . . . 

Little Tug may not be very tall or very fast, but when the big ships in the harbor need help, they know they can count on him to be there with a push, a pull, and a ride to safety. But what happens when Little Tug gets tired? This simple, endearing book with a charming retro feel and an emotional punch is the first book for Roaring Brook Press by the acclaimed author of return 

“Do you like green eggs and ham?” asks Sam-I-am in this Beginner Book by Dr. Seuss. In a house or with a mouse? In a boat or with a goat? On a train or in a tree? Sam keeps asking persistently. With unmistakable characters and signature rhymes, Dr. Seuss’s beloved favorite has cemented its place as a children’s classic. In this most famous of cumulative tales, the list return 

Join the Cat in the Hat as he makes learning to read a joy! It’s a rainy day and Dick and Sally can’t find anything to do . . . until the Cat in the Hat unexpectedly appears and turns their dreary afternoon into a fun-filled extravaganza! This beloved Beginner Book by Dr. Seuss, which also features timeless Dr. Seuss characters such as Fish and Thing 1 and Thing 2, is return 

The lively art and rollicking rhythms of Dr. Seuss's celebration of the alphabet is now available to a whole new generation with this colorful book, published in a format especially suited for babies and toddlers. 

When a bus driver takes a break from his route, a very unlikely volunteer springs up to take his place-a pigeon! But you've never met one like this before. As he pleads, wheedles, and begs his way through the book, children will love being able to answer back and decide his fate. In his hilarious picture book debut, popular cartoonist Mo Willems perfectly captures a return 

Lois Ehlert The 26 characters in this rhythmic, rhyming baby book are a lowercase alphabet with attitude. "A told b, and b told c, 'I'll meet you at the top of the coconut tree'"--which probably seemed like a good idea until the other 23 members of the gang decided to follow suit. Lois Ehlert's chunky block illustrations show the luxuriant green palm return 

If a hungry little traveler shows up at your house, you might want to give him a cookie. If you give him a cookie, he's going to ask for a glass of milk. He'll want to look in a mirror to make sure he doesn't have a milk mustache, and then he'll ask for a pair of scissors to give himself a The consequences of giving a cookie to this energetic mouse run the young return 

Here are three books bound together to make one awesome Bear Country collection! Berenstain Bears' Berenstain Bears' Nature and Berenstain Bears' Science are filled with fascinating facts that cubs and kids want o know about the world they live in. Chock-full of information about the weather, animals, insects, and plants, including dozens return 

In a great green room, tucked away in bed, is a little bunny. "Goodnight room, goodnight moon." And to all the familiar things in the softly lit room -- to the picture of the three little bears sitting on chairs, to the clocks and his socks, to themittens and the kittens, toeverything one by one -- the little bunny says In this classic of children's literature, return 

-- Introduces young children to fundamental aspects of nature, science and technology-- Inspired by the questions children ask about the world around -- Simple text and detailed illustrations answer questions in clear, step-by-step stages 

It started out as a bad day for little yellow bird, little white dog, little orange fox, and little brown squirrel. Until . . A discovery, and love, and luck and persistence, and a different point of view changed all that. What can turn a bad day into a good day? You decide. 

-- Pictures and complementary text explain two fundamental principles of time-- Illustrated in full color 

One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish is a 1960 children's book by Dr. Seuss (Theodor Seuss Geisel). A simple rhyming book for learner readers, it is a book with a freewheeling plot about a boy and a girl, and the many amazing creatures they have for friends and pets. One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish was part of the Beginner Book Video series which included Oh, the return 

This entertaining book is all about the work people do in different sorts of jobs. Set on an imaginary island called Banilla, it introduces a crowd of interesting people and shows some of the events that happen in their daily lives. There is Mayor Naze, the mayor of Banilla; Ivor Hose, the fire chief and Penny Sillin, the doctor, as well as Manuel Laber, the builder; return 

"A unique and beautiful book! We can't think of a classroom in which this book shouldn't bate a prominent place and be used every day". -- Teaching PreK-8 

Merging expressive cartoon network-esque illustrations with beautiful black and white photographs of Brooklyn, this funny story tells how Trixie and Knuffel Bunny's trip to the laundromat with Dad goes terribly wrong when Trixie realizes some bunny's been left behind...! Her attempts to alert Dad all the way home are unsuccessful, until Mum points out that Knuffel Bunny return 

Over 1 million people have read Wonder and have fallen in love with Auggie Pullman, an ordinary boy with an extraordinary face. Now readers will have a chance to hear from the book's most controversial character—Julian. From the very first day Auggie and Julian met in the pages of the New York Times bestseller Wonder, it was clear they were never going to be friends, return 

A magical adventure set in an enchanted castle that is sure to appeal to fans of Gail Carson Levine, Karen Cushman, and Shannon When Sand wakes up alone in a long-abandoned castle, he has no idea how he got there. The stories all said the place was ruined by an earthquake, and Sand did not expect to find everything inside-from dishes to candles to apples-torn in half return 

Hand in hand, the witch's children walked down the empty When Kara Westfall was six years old, her mother was convicted of the worst of all crimes: witchcraft. Years later, Kara and her little brother, Taff, are still shunned by the people of their village, who believe that nothing is more evil than magic . . . except, perhaps, the mysterious forest that covers return 

Ten-year-old Jack Foster has stepped through a doorway and into quite a different Londinium is a smoky, dark, and dangerous place, home to mischievous metal fairies and fearsome clockwork dragons that breathe scalding steam. The people wear goggles to protect their eyes, brass grill insets in their nostrils to filter air, or mechanical limbs to replace missing return 

Twelve-year-old Grace and her mother have always been their own family, traveling from place to place like gypsies. But Gracewants tofinallyhave a home all their own. Just when she thinks she's found it her mother says it's time to move again. Grace summons the courage to tell her mother how she really feels andwill always regret that her last words to herwere angry return 

This much-anticipated follow-up to Jonathan Auxier’s exceptional debut, Nimble and His Fantastic is a Victorian ghost story with shades of Washington Irving and Henry James. More than just a spooky tale, it’s also a moral fable about human greed and the power of The Night follows two abandoned Irish siblings who travel to work as return 

Seven kids, Thor's hammer, and a whole lot of Valkyries are the only things standing against the end of the world. When thirteen-year-old Matt Thorsen, a modern day descendant of the Norse god Thor, was chosen to represent Thor in an epic battle to prevent the apocalypse he thought he knew how things would play out. Gather the descendants standing in for gods like Loki return 

The first things to shift were the doll's eyes, the beautiful grey-green glass eyes. Slowly they swivelled, until their gaze was resting on Triss's face. Then the tiny mouth moved, opened to speak. 'What are you doing here?' It was uttered in tones of outrage and surprise, and in a voice as cold and musical as the clinking of cups. 'Who do you think you are? This is my return 

Eleven years old. The beginning of For Maggie Mayfield, turning eleven means she's one year closer to college. One year closer to voting. And one year closer to getting a tattoo. It's time for her to pull herself up by her bootstraps (the family motto) and think about more than after school snacks and why her older sisters are too hot for their own good. return 

Saving the school -- one con at a Jackson Greene has reformed. No, really he has. He became famous for the Shakedown at Shimmering Hills, and everyone still talks about the Blitz at the Fitz.... But after the disaster of the Mid-Day PDA, he swore off scheming and conning for Then Keith Sinclair -- loser of the Blitz -- announces he's running for school return 

When Lucy, Elena, and Michael receive their summer reading list, they are excited to see To Kill A Mockingbird included.But not everyone in their class shares the same enthusiasm. So they hatch a plot to get the entire town talking about the well-known Harper Lee classic. They plan controversial ways to get people to read the book, including re-shelvingcopies of the return 

Ben Hatke brings back our intrepid space heroine for another delightful adventurein this graphic novel trilogyfor middle grade Zita the Spacegirl has saved planets, battled monsters, and wrestled with interplanetary fame. But she faces her biggest challenge yet in the third and final installment of the Zita adventures. return 

Eighth grade is set to be a good year for Diggy Lawson: He’s chosen a great calf to compete at the Minnesota State Fair, he’ll see a lot of July, the girl he secretly likes at 4-H, and he and his dad Pop have big plans for April Fool’s Day. But everything changes when classmate Wayne Graf’s mother dies, which brings to light the secret that Pop is Wayne’s father, too. return 

All hope for a peaceful coexistence between humankind and aliens seems lost in the third installment of the WondLa trilogy. Eva Nine has gone into hiding for fear of luring the wicked Loroc to her companions. However, news of the city Solas being captured by the human leader, Cadmus Pryde, forces Eva into action once again. With help from an unlikely ally, Eva tries to return 

Two parents share the extraordinary and inspirational story of how they sent six of their ten children to college by the age of how any parent can achieve the same amazing Having six out of ten kids in college is no small feat, but having six kids in college by the age of nothing short of incredible. Meet Kip return 

Percy Jackson meets Indiana Jones in the New York Times bestselling adventure Seven Wonders! The Tomb of Shadows is the third in a seven-book series by master storyteller Peter Lerangis. This sequel to the bestselling Lost in Babylon and The Colossus Rises chronicles the adventures of Jack McKinley and his friends in a life-or-death race to the Mausoleum at return 

In this third installment of the series, 11-year-old whiz-kids Nick and Tesla discover that someone in the quiet town of Half Moon Bay has placed their beloved Uncle Newt underelectronic surveillance—but who is spying on him, and why? To expose the secret agent, Nick and Tesla build all kinds of outrageous contraptions. Throughout the book, the narrative is interrupted return 

An introspective boy and an adventurous girl uncover a poignant family mystery during a summer on the shores of Three Bird For as long as he can remember, Adam and his parents have spent their summers at his grandmother’s rustic cabin on Three Bird Lake. But this year will be different. There will be no rowdy cousins running around tormenting Adam. There will be no return 

Let’s build . . . a fort! Grab a pencil, draw the plans. We’ll construct it with our hands. Dad and son hit the hardware store. And then they start to build! Raise the walls up, hoist that beam. Real construction takes a team! When they’re all done, they’ll have the coolest fort ever! 

Gabe is happily headed back to Nerd Camp, but can he handle a cool-kid For Gabe, the equation for ideal summer bliss equals six glorious weeks of vigorous learning immersion at the Summer Center for Gifted Enrichment; aka, Nerd Camp. Last year was amazing, and this summer will be even At least, that's what Gabe thinks until a new variable is introduced: return 

A collection of forty eerie, mysterious, intriguing, and very short short stories presented by the cabinet’s esteemed curators, otherwise known as acclaimed authors Stefan Bachmann, Katherine Catmull, Claire LeGrand, and Emma Trevayne. Perfect for fans of Alvin Schwartz and anyone who relishes a good creepy read-alone or read-aloud story. Features an introduction and return 

Both spirited and soothing, this bedtime read-aloud story is the perfect preface for a trip to The sun has set, and sleepyheads all across the land are tucked into their cozy is snoozing in the weeds, and Duck is snuggled in the is nestled in his cave, and Otter is rocking on a one little sleepyhead return 

Antoine de Saint-Exupéry was born in France in 1900, when airplanes were just being invented. Antoine dreamed of flying and grew up to be a pilot—and that was when his adventures began. He found a job delivering mail by plane, which had never been done before. He and his fellow pilots traveled to faraway places and discovered new ways of getting fromoneplace to the next. return 

As the editor in chief of magazine, Mark Frauenfelder has spent years combing through DIY books, but he’s never been able to find one with geeky projects he can share with his two daughters. Maker Dad is the first DIY book to use cutting-edge (and affordable) technology in appealing projects for fathers and daughters to do together. These crafts and gadgets are both return 

Caldecott Medalist Chris Raschka shares his love of jazz great Sun Ra, just in time to mark the centennial of the musician’s birth. Jazz musician Sun Ra (1914–1993) always said that he came from Saturn. Being from another planet, he was naturally intrigued by everything earthly — especially music, because music is the one thing on Earth most like the stars. Earthlings return 

Camera! MOOSE? Yes, Moose! When a movie director tries to capture the life of a moose on film, he's in for a big surprise. It turns out the moose has a dream bigger then just being a moose--he wants to be an astronaut and go to the His forest friends step in to help him, and action ensues. of action. Like a lacrosse-playing grandma, a gigantic return 

The Warriors series meets this first book in an epic animal adventure series set in the subway tunnels of Hopper is just an ordinary pet shop mouse before he escapes. Soon he finds himself below the bustling streets of Brooklyn, deep within the untamed tangles of transit tunnels, and in Atlantia, a glorious utopian rat But all is not what return 

They're darling. They're daring. They know their shapes! They're chicks on a mission, and on this, their first (mis)adventure, the Chicken Squad launches a galactic backyard Meet the Chicken Squad: Dirt, Sugar, Poppy, and Sweetie. These chicks are not your typical barnyard puffs of fluff, and they about to spend their days pecking chicken feed and return 

"Taut, fast-paced, economical, devoid of sham, Spinelli’s book echoes Dickinson’s own deceptive New York Times Book Eleven-year-old Suzy just can't win. Her brother is a local hero for calling 911 after seeing their elderly neighbor collapse, and only her best friend was able to win a role in the play they both auditioned for. Feeling cast aside return 

As narrated by Tuesday, Tucks Me is a day in the life of this service dog extraordinaire and tail-wagging ambassador for all things positive and uplifting in the world. The book takes us through a typical day of adventures, startingwith Tuesday waking Luis in the morning and greeting him with dog breath in the face, and then ending with Tuesday cuddling up to return 

From the co-creator of the York bestselling Ladybug Girl series comes a high seas adventure inspired by the classic picture books Bear the Wild Things Three bear siblings break their mother’s favorite blue seashell, and rather than tell her, they decide to set out in their sailboat to find her a new one. On their quest they encounter return 

When Uncle Ben's Dublin business fails, it's clear to Gloria and Raymond that something is wrong. He just isn't his usual cheerful self. So when the children overhear their granny saying that the Black Dog has settled on Ben's back and he won't be OK until it's gone, they decide they're going to get rid of it. Gathering all their courage the children set out on a return 

Acclaimed York picture book creator Michael Hall delivers a funny and suspenseful story about colors, ants, aardvarks, and rainbows that will appeal to Lois Ehlert fans and fans of Very Hungry by Eric Carle. Another winner from the author of Heart Is Like a and Five carpenter ants at home in their return 

In a normal neighborhood, on a typical day, the birds chirp, the dogs bark and the cats meow. When Little Brown Bird decides she doesn't want to sing the same old song, out comes a new tune that shakes up the neighborhood and changes things forever in this funny, innovative book that kids will love to read A Neal Porter return 

An ordinary bubble may seem pretty harmless to you. To the monsters of La La Land, however, a fragile, shimmering bubble is an object of terror, and when the frightening habits of bubbles are detailed by a fear-mongering monster, Yerbert, Froofle, and Wumpus run away and cry. But with encouragement from the narrator and from readers—“Go on, Wumpus, you can do it. (Tell return 

The curious, charming, playful, and internet-famous Otter makes her picture book debut in Am by author-illustrator Sam Garton. Here's what Otter has to say about her book: "Hi! I am Otter, and this is a book about me and my best friends, Otter Keeper and Teddy. And it's about the fun and messy (and little bit scary) adventure we had one day when Otter Keeper was return 

Cleverly revealing the basics of reproduction in an age-appropriate way, award-winning Sophie Blackall has created a beautiful picture book full of playful details to amuse and engage Sooner or later, every child will ask, do babies come from? this question has never been this easy or entertaining! Join a curious little boy who asks everyone return 

Hilda is sat in her tent, dwarfed by volumes of the Fjords Wildlife with a flashlight and her restless companion Twig, but Hilda's not in the fjords and it isn't raining. Hilda's pitched a tent in her room and it's been days since she's been In Hilda's new adventure, she meets the Nisse: a mischievous but charismatic bunch of misfits who occupy a return 

off! Sam is the best race-car driver in history-he is number one at every But when his best friend, Maggie, shows that she has racing talent of her own, Sam doesn't know how to handle coming in second place. Will he learn what it truly means to be a 

Almost 10 years before vs. Board of Sylvia Mendez and her parents helped end school segregation in California. An American citizen of Mexican and Puerto Rican heritage who spoke and wrote perfect English, Mendez was denied enrollment to a “Whites only” school. Her parents took action by organizing the Hispanic community and filing a lawsuit in federal return 

Up until a few days ago, nothing extraordinary had ever happened in ten year old Josh Wunderkind's life - except eating a whole pot of pasta by himself. But that all changed after a mammoth-sized bird hit him smack on the face with a glob of neon green bird poop, triggering his superhuman Wunderkind ability and leaving him with the responsibility of caring for a baby return 

Morris is a little boy who loves using his imagination. But most of all, Morris loves wearing the tangerine dress in his classroom’s dress-up center. The children in Morris’s class don’t understand. Dresses, they say, are for girls. And Morris certainly isn’t welcome in the spaceship some of his classmates are building. Astronauts, they say, don’t wear dresses. One day return 

From the team who brought you Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris comes an alphabet tale Once upon a time there was no alphabet, only Life Orderly. Dull as gray paint. But our five jaunty heroes willing to accept that this was all there could be. They knew there return 

A high-stakes adventure and hilarious ode to self-esteem for fans of Oliver Jeffers, Clack, Moo: Cows That and The Adventures of a Nadine can talk a blue streak, and one day she tells a real whopper: she isn't afraid of anything--no siree! Then her friends call her bluff, and Nadine must enter. . .The Deep. Dark. Woods. Only the woods aren't return 

No one ignores the grand vizier. The most important advisor in the royal court, he was considered the wisest man in the kingdom. He was also Samuel s father. Make sure Hamza never says a mean word to you again, he had ordered Samuel. What should Samuel do? He couldn t disobey his father. But how would he make sure that Hamza never insulted him again? Perhaps train a return 

An all-new stand-alone ADVENTURE TIME story featuring Peppermint Butler and Cinnamon FINN AND JAKE ARE MISSING?! Don't worry Candy Kingdom, Peppermint Butler and Cinnamon Bun will... protect... you? This is a mini-series you definitely don't want to miss, with talent of Yuko Ota and Ananth Panagariya of JOHNNY WANDER writing our candied heroes and Ian McGinty of UGLY return 


Dog and Cat do not get along. But when they're forced to share a room, they agree to be on their best behavior...until Dog won't stop Cat won't stop Dog won't stop Cat won't stop And when it comes to the litter-box...sharing is an will it take to bring Dog and Cat together? Find out in Chris Gall's comic clash that return 

A tongue-in-cheek look at the practical uses of dinosaurs by a dynamic you happen to have a dinosaur, lying around your living room, and you don't know what to do with it ... why don't you use it as a can opener? It will make a terrific nutcracker too! There are oodles of uses for a dinosaur -- from a fine umbrella to an excellent kite and a return 

What could be funnier than a vegetable wearing underwear? A veggie with a wedgie, of When Farmer John puts out his underwear to dry, he has no idea that it will draw the curiosity of all the vegetables on the farm. They think underwear looks cool. And fun. And they desperately want to wear it. But how? On their heads? Their arms? They will have to wiggle around to return 

A comical yet thought-provoking story, follows a boy and his family who adopt a dog that just can’t seem to learn the things other dogs do. Overwhelmed by dogs in need at the local animal shelter, a young boy chooses Norman, the stray who has been there the longest. But, upon bringing him home, the family quickly learns that Norman won’t respond to return 

1 MetroCard, Momma and 2 flights—to catch the turnstiles, singers rumble, a screech . . . the train This bright, young counting book is a delightful trip through the New York City subway system. Hand in hand, child and mother see colorful subway signs and funny passengers, watch trains screeching by, and make new friends. With bold illustrations return 

New York Times Bestseller * Barnes &amp; Noble Bestseller In the epic sequel to the New York Times bestselling novel, The School for Good and Evil, Sophie and Agatha are home, living out their Ever After. But life isn’t quite the fairy tale they expected. When Agatha secretly wishes she’d chosen a different happy ending, she reopens the gates to the School for Good and return 

The Forbidden kicks off a brand new classic fantasy series perfect for fans of and Books of Alice always thought fairy tales had happy endings. That--along with everything else--changed the day she met her first When Alice's father goes down in a shipwreck, she is sent to live with her uncle Geryon--an uncle she's never return 

The Next Great Fantasy Epic is here! For fans of Ranger's Apprentice and the Chronicles of Everyone in Moorvale believes the legend: The brave knight Tristan and the famed wizard Vithric, in an epic battle decades ago, had defeated the evil Nethergrim and his minions. To this day, songs are sung and festivals held in the heroes' honor. Yet now something dark has return 

In this riveting fantasy adventure, thirteen-year-old Jax Aubrey discovers a secret eighth day with roots tracing back to Arthurian legend. Fans of Percy Jackson will devour this first book in a new series that combines exciting magic and pulse-pounding When Jax wakes up to a world without any people in it, he assumes it's the zombie apocalypse. But when he runs return 

Orphaned sixteen-year-old Jennifer Strange runs Kazam, a Mystical Arts Management company that rents out wizards for cash. The Mighty Shandar tells Jennifer that if she finds a mysterious jewel named The Eye of Zoltar, he will spare the dragons he didn't manage to kill in Book It is said the Eye was last seen around the neck of the really very legendary and not at return 

Greed is only the beginning. There will be Since fleeing from Clear Sky's camp in the forest, Thunder has safely returned to settle on the moor with Gray Wing. But the rivalries that have plagued the cats for moons are growing stronger. Gray Wing still believes there is a way for both groups to live in peace, while Clear Sky insists that harsh rules and divided return 

Match wits with Lemony Snicket to solve thirteen have been falling off of walls, a loud and loyal dog has gone missing, a specter has been seen walking the pier at midnight -- strange things are happening all over the town of Stain'd-By-The-Sea. Called upon to investigate thirteen suspicious incidents, young Lemony Snicket collects clues, return 

All aboard for an action-packed escapade from the internationally bestselling author of the Silverwing The the greatest train ever built, is on its maiden voyage across the country, and first-class passenger Will Everett is about to embark on the adventure of his When Will ends up in possession of the key to a train car containing return 

The Luck Uglies is the first in a tween fantasy-adventure trilogy brimming with legends come to life, a charming wit, and a fantastic cast of characters-and is imbued throughout with the magic of Strange things are happening in Village Drowning, and a terrifying encounter has Rye O'Chanter convinced that the monstrous, supposedly extinct Bog Noblins have return 

Athena wants to upgrade a labyrinth for King Minos, but her approach causes problems in this Goddess Girls adventure. Athena's arrogance gets the best of her when her attempts to improve King Minos's labyrinth have unexpected and disastrous Goddess Girls series 

Put on your go-go boots and get ready to "Batusi" back to the Swingin' 60s as DC Comics reimagines the classic Batman TV series in comics form for the first time! These all-new stories portray The Caped Crusader, The Boy Wonder and their fiendish rogues gallery just the way viewers remember them. 

The Pigeon really needs a bath! Except, the Pigeon's not so sure about that. Besides, he took a bath last month! Maybe. It's going to take some serious convincing to try and get the Pigeon to take the plunge. 

Deep within the catacombs beneath an Aztec temple, a Disney witch doctor is summoning powers that should be left alone. As terrifying wraiths and demons attack the Archives on the Walt Disney Studios lot, leaving a trail of destruction in their wake, Finn, Willa, Philby, Maybeck, and Charlene are summoned to Disneyland fresh from high school graduation. They must stop an return 

When thirteen-year-old Margaret's father is unfairly sentenced to death by the cruel Judge Biggs, she is determined to save him, even if it means using her family's secret-and forbidden-ability to time travel. With the help of her best friend, Charlie, and his grandpa Josh, Margaret goes back to a time when Judge Biggs was a young boy and tries to prevent the chain of return 

Steampunk is fun! Steampunk is imaginative! It's making something new out of something old. It's dressing up in clothing from long ago. It's inventing machines out of hardware and found objects. It's creating a make-believe world! In Professor Whiskerton Presents Steampunk ABC, two mice dressed in Victorian clothing use gadgets and found objects ? each starting with a return 

Award-winning author and illustrator Ashley Spires has created a charming picture book about an unnamed girl and her very best friend, who happens to be a dog. The girl has a wonderful idea. "She is going to make the most MAGNIFICENT thing! She knows just how it will look. She knows just how it will work. All she has to do is make it, and she makes things all the time. return 

Each of King Neptune's 50 mermaid daughters boasts a special talent, except for little Minnow, who seems to be good only?at asking questions. When she finds a strange object, Minnow follows her questions to a wondrous place and finds answers, including the answer to the most important question of all: Who am I? A gorgeously illustrated story about finding one's purpose. 

The event that the New 52 has been building towards since the beginning! New York Times best-selling writer Geoff Johns (GREEN LANTERN, BATMAN: EARTH ONE) brings together almost two years of plot threads for an epic tale that will forever change the shape of the DC Universe. When the three Justice Leagues go to war with one another, who's side will everyone be on? return 

The League of Princes returns in the hilariously epic conclusion to the hit series that began with Christopher Healy's The Hero's Guide to Saving Your Kingdom, which the Los Angeles Times called "one of the more clever, hilariously successful incarnations of the current literary rage to rip apart and rewrite fairy Prince Liam. Prince Frederic. Prince Duncan. return 

Armani Curtis can think about only one thing: her tenth birthday. All her friends are coming to her party, her mama is making a big cake, and she has a good feeling about a certain wrapped box. Turning ten is a big deal to Armani. It means she's older, wiser, more responsible. But when Hurricane Katrina hits the Lower Nines of New Orleans, Armani realizes that being ten return 

Just as Hal Jordan, John Stewart and Guy Gardner are putting back together the Green Lantern Corps, lights across all of the different colored Corps begin to flicker. Lanterns from all over the universe begin to lose power, but unlike times' past, the reasons for the outage don't seem to be in-fighting between one another. Allying with enemies and friends alike, Hal return 

Sleeping Beauty's younger, non-magical sister, Annie, still can't rest while trouble in the kingdom threatens her good friend, Snow White. Snow White's evil stepmother has disappeared, and her father wants her married off right away--but who should she choose? How can she tell which prince is best? It's Annie and her good friend Liam to the rescue! A hilarious and and return 

Brother Hugo can't return his library book -- the letters of St. Augustine -- because, it turns out, the precious book has been devoured by a bear! Instructed by the abbot to borrow another monastery's copy and create a replacement, the hapless monk painstakingly crafts a new book, copying it letter by letter and line by line. But when he sets off to return the borrowed return 

An exciting new picture book-perfect for the little monster in your Everybody knows monsters can be...well, MONSTERS. But did you know sometimes even monsters get scared? They can be sad, they can be kind, they can miss their mommies. Sometimes, they're just plain silly. And even monsters need to brush their A funny and family-friendly picture book by return 

This magical story begins on an island far away where an imaginary friend is born. He patiently waits his turn to be chosen by a real child, but when he is overlooked time and again, he sets off on an incredible journey to the bustling city, where he finally meets his perfect match and-at long last-is given his special name: New York bestselling and return 

McCullough's graduation speech "You Are Not Special" struck a cultural nerve and instantly went viral. Children today, says David McCullough, are being encouraged to sacrifice passionate engagement with life for specious notions of success. The intense pressure to excel discourages kids from taking chances, failing, and learning empathy and self-confidence from those return 

A new constructacular picture book from the New York Times bestselling creator of Pete the Cat, James Dean and bestselling author, Joan Mighty dads, strong and their children, young and They keep them safe and bolted show them how to build things Inventively told through James Dean's colorful construction vehicle characters, MIGHTY return 


High in his tree a young panda named Chengdu lies awake, even though everyone around him is quietly sleeping. He tosses and he turns. He scrunches and he squirms, until he finally finds the perfect spot. 

In this magical fifth installment of the hit series, siblings Abby and Jonah fall into the fairy tale of Rapunzel . . . and hilarity Fractured fairy tales are all the rage, and this series has been a huge hit! This time, the magic mirror sucks Abby and Jonah into the story of Rapunzel. When the siblings get the famous tale all tangled up, they have to find a way return 

From the author of to Teach a Slug to comes a delightful story about a pea named Arlo who wants to be free. So off he rolls...and rolls...and rolls. He meets a slug, he meets a bug—and still he rolls until...you'll see! Filled with charming illustrations and told in verse, this endearing tale explores the ideas of independence and striking out on one's own. 

In this lyrical story about friendship and the power of dreams, a small and ordinary fish named Glub asks himself the big questions in life as he observes life in the diner beyond his fishbowl. Who am I? Where do I belong? The lively characters around him provide unexpected answers, but soon it's Glub who reveals answers to their questions -- and their hearts' true return 

A beautifully illustrated, multicultural children's picture book based on one of Ziggy Marley's most beloved songs, "I Love You Too." The book explores a child's relationship with parents, nature, and the unstoppable force of love. 

Theme: Feeling Smart. Cow has so many ideas! In fact, she has one hundred of them: green is the best color ever; chewed grass tastes like a cookie . . . But has Cowy Cow ever tasted a cookie before? Though her research may be flawed, this single cow’s efforts to make silly sense of the world are both tickling and inspiring! Chris Raschka’s award-winning brush return 

It’s not easy being a Super Hero when you’ve got a steady job to hold down and girlfriend problems to deal with. Somehow, Peter Parker (aka Spider-Man) manages to do it while regularly saving New York City from a rogues’ gallery of super villains. In World According to the wisecracking hero spills the beans on how he balances his two lives and manages to return 

Theme: Feeling Grumpy. Crab is not in a good mood. No, Crabby Crab would rather complain than do anything else! Young readers will be drawn in by this humorous look into an all-too-familiar situation, and be comforted in the end. Chris Raschka’s expert balance of visual and textual humor will charm even the grumpiest of for return 

A persevering penguin is determined to fly in this adorably inspiring picture book from the creator of Hat Although little Penguin has the soul of an eagle, his body built to soar. But Penguin has an irrepressible spirit, and he adamantly follows his dreams to flip, flap, fly! Even if he needs a little help with the technical parts, this return 

The Simple family's plans for a picnic in the parkprove disastrously complex. From the artist and author J. C. Phillipps comesthis hilarious little picture book with a big heart to remind us that picnics arejust alittle about food and a lot about family. return 

What keeps objects from floating out of your if your feet drifted away from the stops everything from floating into in his previous books, Redwoods, Coral Reefs, and Island, Jason Chin has taken a complex subject and made it brilliantly accessible to young readers in this unusual, innovative, and very beautiful Neal Porter return 

Intrigue, danger, chess, and a real-life hoax combine in this historical novel from the author of Shakespeare Philadelphia, PA, 1835. Rufus, a twelve-year-old chess prodigy, is recruited by a shady showman named Maelzel to secretly operate a mechanical chess player called the Turk. The Turk wows ticket-paying audience members and players, who do not realize return 

Teddy Fitzroy’s back for another zoo mystery—this time it’s a koala caper—in this action-packed follow-up to Belly Up, which Kirkus Reviews called “great School troublemaker Vance Jessup thinks Teddy Fitzroy’s home at FunJungle, a state-of-the-art zoo and theme park, is the perfect place for a cruel prank. Vance bullies Teddy into his scheme, but the plan goes return 

Enter a fascinating, ornately drawn cityscape and help a boy find his dragon while counting objects from hot dogs to traffic In the heart of the city, among the taxis and towers, a small boy travels uptown and down, searching for his friend. Readers will certainly spot the glorious beast, plus an array of big-city icons they can count. Is the dragon taking the return 

A baby piranha goes to the dentist for the first time. He learns that if he keeps his teeth clean, he can join the 'No Cavity Club!" 

A hilarious new book about a boy who refuses to wear clothes, from comedian Michael Ian Black and illustrator Debbi Ridpath Ohi, the team that brought you a York Times Children's Michael Ian Black and Debbie Ridpath Ohi, whose "smart cartoony artwork matches Black's perfect comic timing" New York Times Book have paired up again return 

After the grisly murder of his entire family, a toddler wanders into a graveyard where the ghosts and other supernatural residents agree to raise him as one of their Nobody Owens, known to his friends as Bod, is a normal boy. He would be completely normal if he didn't live in a sprawling graveyard, being raised and educated by ghosts, with a solitary guardian who return 

