gone away to earn her livelihood. she confidentially seized deta's arm and said: "i wish you would tell me the truth about him, deta; you know it all--people only gossip. tell me, what has happened to the old man to turn everybody against him so? did he always hate his fellow-creatures?" "i cannot tell you whether he always did, and that for a very good reason. he being sixty years old, and i only twenty-six, you can't expect me to give you an account of his early youth. but if you'll promise to keep it to yourself and not set all the people in prätiggan talking, i can tell you a good deal. my mother and he both came from domleschg." "how can you talk like that, deta?" replied barbara in an offended tone. "people do not gossip much in prätiggan, and i always can keep things to myself, if i have to. you won't repent of having told me, i assure you!" "all right, but keep your word!" said deta warningly. then she looked around to see that the child was not so close to them as to overhear what might be said; but the little girl was nowhere to be seen. while the two young women had talked at such a rate, they had not noticed her absence; quite a while must have elapsed since the little girl had given up following her companions. deta, standing still, looked about her everywhere, but no one was on the path, which--except for a few curves--was visible as far down as the village. "there she is! can't you see her there?" exclaimed barbara, pointing to a spot a good distance from the path. "she is climbing up with the goatherd peter and his goats. i wonder why he is so late to-day. i must say, it suits us well enough; he can look after the child while you tell me everything without being interrupted." "it will be very easy for peter to watch her," remarked deta; "she is bright for her five years and keeps her eyes wide open. i have often noticed that and i am glad for her, for it will be useful with the uncle. he has nothing left in the whole wide world, but his cottage and two goats!" "did he once have more?" asked barbara. "i should say so. he was heir to a large farm in domleschg. but setting up to play the fine gentleman, he soon lost everything with drink and play. his parents died with grief and he himself disappeared from these parts. after many years he came back with a half-grown boy, his son, tobias, that was his name, became a carpenter and turned out to be a quiet, steady fellow. many strange rumors went round about the uncle and i think that was why he left domleschg for dörfli. we acknowledged relationship, my mother's grandmother being a cousin of his. we called him uncle, and because we are related on my father's side to nearly all the people in the hamlet they too all called him uncle. he was named 'alm-uncle' when he moved up to the alm." "but what happened to tobias?" asked barbara eagerly. "just wait. how can i tell you everything at once?" exclaimed deta. "tobias was an apprentice in mels, and when he was made master, he came home to the village and married my sister adelheid. they always had been fond of each other and they lived very happily as man and wife. but their joy was short. two years afterwards, when tobias was helping to build a house, a beam fell on him and killed him. adelheid was thrown into a violent fever with grief and fright, and never recovered from it. she had never been strong and had often suffered from queer spells, when we did not know whether she was awake or asleep. only a few weeks after tobias's death they buried poor adelheid. "people said that heaven had punished the uncle for his misdeeds. after the death of his son he never spoke to a living soul. suddenly he moved up to the alp, to live there at enmity with god and man. "my mother and i took adelheid's little year-old baby, heidi, to live with us. when i went to ragatz i took her with me; but in the spring the family whose work i had done last year came from frankfurt and resolved to take me to their town-house. i am very glad to get such a good position." "and now you want to hand over the child to this terrible old man. i really wonder how you can do it, deta!" said barbara with reproach in her voice. "it seems to me i have really done enough for the child. i do not know where else to take her, as she is too young to come with me to frankfurt. by the way, barbara, where are you going? we are half-way up the alm already." deta shook hands with her companion and stood still while barbara approached the tiny, dark-brown mountain hut, which lay in a hollow a few steps away from the path. situated half-way up the alm, the cottage was luckily protected from the mighty winds. had it been exposed to the tempests, it would have been a doubtful habitation in the state of decay it was in. even as it was, the doors and windows rattled and the old rafters shook when the south wind swept the mountain side. if the hut had stood on the alm top, the wind would have blown it down the valley without much ado when the storm season came. here lived peter the goatherd, a boy eleven years old, who daily fetched the goats from the village and drove them up the mountain to the short and luscious grasses of the pastures. peter raced down in the evening with the light-footed little goats. when he whistled sharply through his fingers, 