other's company, which requests were always granted. the cook, who had been in the house for many years, would often shake her head and mutter: "that i should live to see this!" something strange and weird was happening in the house. every morning, when the servants came down-stairs, they found the front door wide open. at first everybody had thought that the house must have been robbed, but nothing was missing. every morning it was the same, despite the double locks that were put on the door. at last john and sebastian, taking courage, prepared themselves to watch through a night to see who was the ghost. armed and provided with some strengthening liquor, they repaired to a room down-stairs. first they talked, but soon, getting sleepy, they leaned silently back in their chairs. when the clock from the old church tower struck one, sebastian awoke and roused his comrade, which was no easy matter. at last, however, john was wide awake, and together they went out into the hall. the same moment a strong wind put out the light that john held in his hand. rushing back, he nearly upset sebastian, who stood behind him, and pulling the butler back into the room, he locked the door in furious haste. when the light was lit again, sebastian noticed that john was deadly pale and trembling like an aspen leaf. sebastian, not having seen anything, asked anxiously: "what is the matter? what did you see?" "the door was open and a white form was on the stairs; it went up and was gone in a moment," gasped john. cold shivers ran down the butler's back. they sat without moving till the morning came, and then, shutting the door, they went upstairs to report to the housekeeper what they had seen. the lady, who was waiting eagerly, heard the tale and immediately sat down to write to mr. sesemann. she told him that fright had paralyzed her fingers and that terrible things were happening in the house. then followed a tale of the appearance of the ghost. mr. sesemann replied that he could not leave his business, and advised miss rottenmeier to ask his mother to come to stay with them, for mrs. sesemann would easily despatch the ghost. miss rottenmeier was offended with the tone of the letter, which did not seem to take her account seriously. mrs. sesemann also replied that she could not come, so the housekeeper decided to tell the children all about it. clara, at the uncanny tale, immediately exclaimed that she would not stay alone another moment and that she wished her father to come home. the housekeeper arranged to sleep with the frightened child, while heidi, who did not know what ghosts were, was perfectly unmoved. another letter was despatched to mr. sesemann, telling him that the excitement might have serious effects on his daughter's delicate constitution, and mentioning several misfortunes that might probably happen if he did not relieve the household from this terror. this brought mr. sesemann. going to his daughter's room after his arrival, he was overjoyed to see her as well as ever. clara was also delighted to see her father. "what new tricks has the ghost played on you, miss rottenmeier?" asked mr. sesemann with a twinkle in his eye. "it is no joke, mr. sesemann," replied the lady seriously. "i am sure you will not laugh tomorrow. those strange events indicate that something secret and horrible has happened in this house in days gone by." "is that so? this is new to me," remarked mr. sesemann. "but will you please not suspect my venerable ancestors? please call sebastian; i want to speak to him alone." mr. sesemann knew that the two were not on good terms, so he said to the butler: "come here, sebastian, and tell me honestly, if you have played the ghost for miss rottenmeier's pastime?" "no, upon my word, master; you must not think that," replied sebastian frankly. "i do not like it quite myself." "well, i'll show you and john what ghosts look like by day. you ought to be ashamed of yourselves, strong young men like you! now go at once to my old friend, dr. classen, and tell him to come to me at nine o'clock to-night. tell him that i came from paris especially to consult him, and that i want him to sit up all night with me. do you understand me, sebastian?" "yes indeed! i shall do as you say, mr. sesemann." mr. sesemann then went up to clara's room to quiet and comfort her. punctually at nine o'clock the doctor arrived. though his hair was grey, his face was still fresh, and his eyes were lively and kind. when he saw his friend, he laughed aloud and said: "well, well, you look pretty healthy for one who needs to be watched all night." "have patience, my old friend," replied mr. sesemann. "i am afraid the person we have to sit up for will look worse, but first we must catch him." "what? then somebody _is_ sick in this house? what do you mean?" "far worse, doctor, far worse. a ghost is in the house. my house is haunted." when the doctor laughed, mr. sesemann continued: "i call that sympathy; i wish my friend miss rottenmeier could hear you. she is convinced that an old sesemann is wandering about, expiating some dreadful deed." "how did she make his acquaintance?" asked the doctor, much amused. mr. sesemann then explained the circumstances. he said that the matter was either a bad joke which an acquaintance of the servants was playing in his absence, or it was a gang of thieves, who, after intimidating the people, would surely rob his house by and by. with these explanations they entered the room where the two servants had watched before. a few bottles of wine stood on the table and two bright candelabra shed a brilliant light. two revolvers were ready for emergencies. 