"can you see it when i open the shutter to let in the light?" "no, no, not even then. nobody can ever show me the light again." "but you can see when you go out into the snow, where everything is bright. come with me, grandmother, i'll show you!" and heidi, taking the old woman by the hand, tried to lead her out. heidi was frightened and got more anxious all the time. "just let me stay here, child. everything is dark for me, and my poor eyes can neither see the snow nor the light." "but grandmother, does it not get light in the summer, when the sun shines down on the mountains to say good-night, setting them all aflame?" "no, child, i can never see the fiery mountains any more. i have to live in darkness, always." heidi burst out crying now and sobbed aloud. "can nobody make it light for you? is there nobody who can do it, grandmother? nobody?" the grandmother tried all possible means to comfort the child; it wrung her heart to see her terrible distress. it was awfully hard for heidi to stop crying when she had once begun, for she cried so seldom. the grandmother said: "heidi, let me tell you something. people who cannot see love to listen to friendly words. sit down beside me and tell me all about yourself. talk to me about your grandfather, for it has been long since i have heard anything about him. i used to know him very well." heidi suddenly wiped away her tears, for she had had a cheering thought. "grandmother, i shall tell grandfather about it, and i am sure he can make it light for you. he can mend your little house and stop the rattling." the old woman remained silent, and heidi, with the greatest vivacity, began to describe her life with the grandfather. listening attentively, the two women would say to each other sometimes: "do you hear what she says about the uncle? did you listen?" heidi's tale was interrupted suddenly by a great thumping on the door; and who should come in but peter. no sooner had he seen heidi, than he smiled, opening his round eyes as wide as possible. heidi called, "good-evening, peter!" "is it really time for him to come home!" exclaimed peter's grandmother. "how quickly the time has flown. good-evening, little peter; how is your reading going?" "just the same," the boy replied. "oh, dear, i was hoping for a change at last. you are nearly twelve years old, my boy." "why should there be a change?" inquired heidi with greatest interest. "i am afraid he'll never learn it after all. on the shelf over there is an old prayer-book with beautiful songs. i have forgotten them all, for i do not hear them any more. i longed that peter should read them to me some day, but he will never be able to!" peter's mother got up from her work now, saying, "i must make a light. the afternoon has passed and now it's getting dark." when heidi heard those words, she started, and holding out her hand to all, she said: "good-night. i have to go, for it is getting dark." but the anxious grandmother called out: "wait, child, don't go up alone! go with her, peter, and take care that she does not fall. don't let her get cold, do you hear? has heidi a shawl?" "i haven't, but i won't be cold," heidi called back, for she had already escaped through the door. she ran so fast that peter could hardly follow her. the old woman frettingly called out: "brigida, run after her. get a warm shawl, she'll freeze in this cold night. hurry up!" brigida obeyed. the children had hardly climbed any distance, when they saw the old man coming and with a few vigorous steps he stood beside them. "i am glad you kept you word, heidi," he said; and packing her into her cover, he started up the hill, carrying the child in his arms. brigida had come in time to see it, and told the grandmother what she had witnessed. "thank god, thank god!" the old woman said. "i hope she'll come again; she has done me so much good! what a soft heart she has, the darling, and how nicely she can talk." all evening the grandmother said to herself, "if only he lets her come again! i have something to look forward to in this world now, thank god!" heidi could hardly wait before they reached the cottage. she had tried to talk on the way, but no sound could be heard through the heavy cover. as soon as they were inside the hut she began: "grandfather, we must take some nails and a hammer down tomorrow; a shutter is loose in grandmother's house and many other places shake. everything rattles in her house." "is that so? who says we must?" "nobody told me, but i know," heidi replied. "everything is loose in the house, and poor grandmother told me she was afraid that the house might tumble down. and grandfather, she cannot see the light. can you help her and make it light for her? how terrible it must be to be afraid in the dark and nobody there to help you! oh, please, grandfather, do something to help her! i know you can." heidi had been clinging to her grandfather and looking up to him with trusting eyes. at last he said, glancing down: "all right, child, we'll see that it won't rattle any more. we can do it tomorrow." heidi was so overjoyed at these words that she danced around the room shouting: "we'll do it tomorrow! we can do it tomorrow!" the grandfather, keeping his word, took heidi down the following day with the same instructions as before. after heidi had disappeared, he went around the house inspecting it. the grandmother, in her joy at seeing the child again, 