at your head, where it ought to be high. no bed ought to be like that." "i know, child, i can feel it well." so saying, the old woman tried to change her position on the pillow that lay under her like a thin board. "my pillow never was very thick, and sleeping on it all these years has made it flat." "oh dear, if i had only asked clara to give me the bed i had in frankfurt!" heidi lamented. "it had three big pillows on it; i could hardly sleep because i kept sliding down from them all the time. could you sleep with them, grandmother?" "of course, because that would keep me warm. i could breathe so much easier, too," said the grandmother, trying to find a higher place to lie on. "but i must not talk about it any more, for i have to be thankful for many things. i get the lovely roll every day and have this beautiful warm shawl. i also have you, my child! heidi, wouldn't you like to read me something to-day?" heidi immediately fetched the book and read one song after another. the grandmother in the meantime was lying with folded hands; her face, which had been so sad a short time ago, was lit up with a happy smile. suddenly heidi stopped. "are you well again, grandmother?" she asked. "i feel very much better, heidi. please finish the song, will you?" the child obeyed, and when she came to the last words, when mine eyes grow dim and sad, let thy love more brightly burn, that my soul, a wanderer glad, safely homeward may return. "safely homeward may return!" she exclaimed: "oh, grandmother, i know what it is like to come home." after a while she said: "it is getting dark, grandmother, i must go home now. i am glad that you feel better again." [illustration: the two children were already flying down the alp] the grandmother, holding the child's hand in hers, said: "yes, i am happy again, though i have to stay in bed. nobody knows how hard it is to lie here alone, day after day. i do not hear a word from anybody and cannot see a ray of sunlight. i have very sad thoughts sometimes, and often i feel as if i could not bear it any longer. but when i can hear those blessed songs that you have read to me, it makes me feel as if a light was shining into my heart, giving me the purest joy." shaking hands, the child now said good-night, and pulling peter with her, ran outside. the brilliant moon was shining down on the white snow, light as day. the two children were already flying down the alp, like birds soaring through the air. after heidi had gone to bed that night, she lay awake a little while, thinking over everything the grandmother had said, especially about the joy the songs had given her. if only poor grandmother could hear those comforting words every day! heidi knew that it might be a week or two again before she could repeat her visit. the child became very sad when she thought how uncomfortable and lonely the old woman would be. was there no way for help? suddenly heidi had an idea, and it thrilled her so that she felt as if she could not wait till morning came to put her plan in execution. but in her excitement she had forgotten her evening prayer, so sitting up in bed, she prayed fervently to god. then, falling back into the fragrant hay, she soon slept peacefully and soundly still the bright morning came. [illustration] xix winter still continues peter arrived punctually at school next day. he had brought his lunch with him in a bag, for all the children that came from far away ate in school, while the others went home. in the evening peter as usual paid his visit to heidi. the minute he opened the door she ran up to him, saying: "peter, i have to tell you something." "say it," he replied. "you must learn to read now," said the child. "i have done it already." "yes, yes, peter, but i don't mean it that way," heidi eagerly proceeded; "you must learn so that you really know how afterwards." "i can't," peter remarked. "nobody believes you about that any more, and i won't either," heidi said resolutely. "when i was in frankfurt, grandmama told me that it wasn't true and that i shouldn't believe you." peter's astonishment was great. "i'll teach you, for i know how; when you have learnt it, you must read one or two songs to grandmother every day." "i shan't!" grumbled the boy. this obstinate refusal made heidi very angry. with flaming eyes she planted herself before the boy and said: "i'll tell you what will happen, if you don't want to learn. your mother has often said that she'll send you to frankfurt. clara showed me the terrible, large boys' school there, where you'll have to go. you must stay there till you are a man, peter! you mustn't think that there is only one teacher there, and such a kind one as we have here. no, indeed! there are whole rows of them, and when they are out walking they have high black hats on their heads. i saw them myself, when i was out driving!" cold shivers ran down peter's back. "yes, you'll have to go there, and when they find out that you can't read or even spell, they'll laugh at you!" "i'll do it," said peter, half angry and half frightened. "oh, i am glad. let us start right away!" said heidi joyfully, pulling peter over to the table. among the things that clara had sent, heidi had found a little book with the a,b,c and some rhymes. she had chosen this for the lessons. peter, having to spell the first rhyme, found great difficulty, 