wondered if i should not send our little peter too. what do you think, uncle?" the uncle's eyes sparkled with fun, when he replied: "i am sure it would not hurt peter; nevertheless i should wait for a fitting occasion before i sent him." the next moment peter himself arrived in great haste. he had a letter for heidi, which had been given to him in the village. what an event, a letter for heidi! they all sat down at the table while the child read it aloud. the letter was from clara sesemann, who wrote that everything had got so dull since heidi left. she said that she could not stand it very long, and therefore her father had promised to take her to ragatz this coming fall. she announced that grandmama was coming too, for she wanted to see heidi and her grandfather. grandmama, having heard about the rolls, was sending some coffee, too, so that the grandmother would not have to eat them dry. grandmama also insisted on being taken to the grandmother herself when she came on her visit. great was the delight caused by this news, and what with all the questions and plans that followed, the grandfather himself forgot how late it was. this happy day, which had united them all, caused the old woman to say at parting: "the most beautiful thing of all, though, is to be able to shake hands again with an old friend, as in days gone by; it is a great comfort to find again, what we have treasured. i hope you'll come soon again, uncle. i am counting on the child for tomorrow." this promise was given. while heidi and her grandfather were on their homeward path, the peaceful sound of evening bells accompanied them. at last they reached the cottage, which seemed to glow in the evening light. part ii heidi makes use of her experience [illustration] xv preparations for a journey the kind doctor who had sent heidi home to her beloved mountains was approaching the sesemann residence on a sunny day in september. everything about him was bright and cheerful, but the doctor did not even raise his eyes from the pavement to the blue sky above. his face was sad and his hair had turned very gray since spring. a few months ago the doctor had lost his only daughter, who had lived with him since his wife's early death. the blooming girl had been his only joy, and since she had gone from him the ever-cheerful doctor was bowed down with grief. when sebastian opened the door to the physician he bowed very low, for the doctor made friends wherever he went. "i am glad you have come doctor," mr. sesemann called to his friend as he entered. "please let us talk over this trip to switzerland again. do you still give the same advice, now that clara is so much better?" "what must i think of you, sesemann?" replied the doctor, sitting down. "i wish your mother was here. everything is clear to her and things go smoothly then. this is the third time to-day that you have called me, and always for the same thing!" "it is true, it must make you impatient," said mr. sesemann. laying his hand on his friend's shoulder, he continued: "i cannot say how hard it is for me to refuse clara this trip. haven't i promised it to her and hasn't she looked forward to it for months? she has borne all her suffering so patiently, just because she had hoped to be able to visit her little friend on the alp. i hate to rob her of this pleasure. the poor child has so many trials and so little change." "but, sesemann, you must do it," was the doctor's answer. when his friend remained silent, he continued: "just think what a hard summer clara has had! she never was more ill and we could not attempt this journey without risking the worst consequences. remember, we are in september now, and though the weather may still be fine on the alp, it is sure to be very cool. the days are getting short, and she could only spend a few hours up there, if she had to return for the night. it would take several hours to have her carried up from ragatz. you see yourself how impossible it is! i shall come in with you, though, to talk to clara, and you'll find her sensible. i'll tell you of my plan for next may. first she can go to ragatz to take the baths. when it gets warm on the mountain, she can be carried up from time to time. she'll be stronger then and much more able to enjoy those excursions than she is now. if we hope for an improvement in her condition, we must be extremely cautious and careful, remember that!" mr. sesemann, who had been listening with the utmost submission, now said anxiously: "doctor, please tell me honestly if you still have hope left for any change?" with shrugging shoulders the doctor replied: "not very much. but think of me, sesemann! have you not a child, who loves you and always welcomes you? you don't have to come back to a lonely house and sit down alone at your table. your child is well taken care of, and if she has many privations, she also has many advantages. sesemann, you do not need to be pitied! just think of my lonely home!" mr. sesemann had gotten up and was walking round the room, as he always did when something occupied his thoughts. suddenly he stood before his friend and said: "doctor, i have an idea. i cannot see you sad any longer. you must get away. you shall undertake this trip and visit heidi in our stead." the doctor had been surprised by this proposal, and tried to object. but mr. sesemann was so full of his new project 