filled with tears. turning quickly he hurried off. heidi, standing on the same spot, looked after him. what kind eyes he had! but they had been full of tears. all of a sudden she began to cry bitterly, and ran after her friend, calling with all her might, but interrupted by her sobs: "oh doctor, doctor!" looking round he stood still and waited till the child had reached him. her tears came rolling down her cheeks while she sobbed: "i'll come with you to frankfurt and i'll stay as long as ever you want me to. but first i must see grandfather." "no, no, dear child," he said affectionately, "not at once. you must remain here, i don't want you to get ill again. but if i should get sick and lonely and ask you to come to me, would you come and stay with me? can i go away and think that somebody in this world still cares for me and loves me?" "yes, i shall come to you the same day, for i really love you as much as grandfather," heidi assured him, crying all the time. shaking hands again, they parted. heidi stayed on the same spot, waving her hand and looking after her departing friend till he seemed no bigger than a little dot. then he looked back a last time at heidi and the sunny alp, muttering to himself: "it is beautiful up there. body and soul get strengthened in that place and life seems worth living again." [illustration] xviii winter in the village the snow lay so deep around the alm-hut that the windows seemed to stand level with the ground and the house-door had entirely disappeared. round peter's hut it was the same. when the boy went out to shovel the snow, he had to creep through the window; then he would sink deep into the soft snow and kick with arms and legs to get free. taking a broom, the boy would have to clear away the snow from the door to prevent its falling into the hut. the uncle had kept his word; when the first snow had fallen, he had moved down to the village with heidi and his goats. near the church and the parish house lay an old ruin that once had been a spacious building. a brave soldier had lived there in days gone by; he had fought in the spanish war, and coming back with many riches, had built himself a splendid house. but having lived too long in the noisy world to be able to stand the monotonous life in the little town, he soon went away, never to come back. after his death, many years later, though the house was already beginning to decay, a distant relation of his took possession of it. the new proprietor did not want to build it up again, so poor people moved in. they had to pay little rent for the house, which was gradually crumbling and falling to pieces. years ago, when the uncle had come to the village with tobias, he had lived there. most of the time it had been empty, for the winter lasted long, and cold winds would blow through the chinks in the walls. when poor people lived there, their candles would be blown out and they would shiver with cold in the dark. but the uncle, had known how to help himself. in the fall, as soon as he had resolved to live in the village, he came down frequently, fitting up the place as best he could. on approaching the house from the back, one entered an open room, where nearly all the walls lay in ruins. on one side the remains of a chapel could be seen, now covered with the thickest ivy. a large hall came next, with a beautiful stone floor and grass growing in the crevices. most of the walls were gone and part of the ceiling also. if a few thick pillars had not been left supporting the rest, it would undoubtedly have tumbled down. the uncle had made a wooden partition here for the goats, and covered the floor with straw. several corridors, most of them half decayed, led finally to a chamber with a heavy iron door. this room was still in good condition and had dark wood panelling on the four firm walls. in one corner was an enormous stove, which nearly reached up to the ceiling. on the white tiles were painted blue pictures of old towers surrounded by high trees, and of hunters with their hounds. there also was a scene with a quiet lake, where, under shady oak-trees, a fisherman was sitting. around the stove a bench was placed. heidi loved to sit there, and as soon as she had entered their new abode, she began to examine the pictures. arriving at the end of the bench, she discovered a bed, which was placed between the wall and the stove. "oh grandfather, i have found my bed-room," exclaimed the little girl. "oh, how fine it is! where are you going to sleep?" "your bed must be near the stove, to keep you warm," said the old man. "now come and look at mine." with that the grandfather led her into his bed-room. from there a door led into the hugest kitchen heidi had ever seen. with a great deal of trouble the grandfather had fitted up this place. many boards were nailed across the walls and the door had been fastened with heavy wires, for beyond, the building lay in ruins. thick underbrush was growing there, sheltering thousands of insects and lizards. heidi was delighted with her new home, and when peter arrived next day, she did not rest till he had seen every nook and corner of the curious dwelling-place. heidi slept very well in her chimney corner, but it took her many days to get accustomed to it. when she woke up in the morning and could 