i want to know if you also have a wish?" "yes indeed, i have," said heidi, pleased. "tell me what it is, child!" "i should like to have my bed from frankfurt with the three high pillows and the thick, warm cover. then grandmother will be able to keep warm and won't have to wear her shawl in bed. oh, i'll be so happy when she won't have to lie with her head lower than her heels, hardly able to breathe!" heidi had said all this in one breath, she was so eager. "oh dear, i had nearly forgotten what i meant to do. i am so glad you have reminded me, heidi. if god sends us happiness we must think of those who have many privations. i shall telegraph immediately for the bed, and if miss rottenmeier sends it off at once, it can be here in two days. i hope the poor blind grandmother will sleep better when it comes." heidi, in her happiness, could hardly wait to bring the old woman the good news. soon it was resolved that everybody should visit the grandmother, who had been left alone so long. before starting, however, mr. sesemann revealed his plans. he proposed to travel through switzerland with his mother and clara. he would spend the night in the village, so as to fetch clara from the alm next morning for the journey. from there they would go first to ragatz and then further. the telegram was to be mailed that night. clara's feelings were divided, for she was sorry to leave the alp, but the prospect of the trip delighted her. when everything was settled, they all went down, the uncle carrying clara, who could not have risked the lengthy walk. all the way down heidi told the old lady of her friends in the hut; the cold they had to bear in winter and the little food they had. brigida was just hanging up peter's shirt to dry, when the whole company arrived. rushing into the house, she called to her mother: "now they are all going away. uncle is going, too, carrying the lame child." "oh, must it really be?" sighed the grandmother. "have you seen whether they took heidi away? oh, if she only could give me her hand once more! oh, i long to hear her voice once more!" the same moment the door was flung open and heidi held her tight. "grandmother, just think. my bed with the three pillows and the thick cover is coming from frankfurt. grandmama has said that it will be here in two days." heidi thought that grandmother would be beside herself with joy, but the old woman, smiling sadly, said: "oh, what a good lady she must be! i know i ought to be glad she is taking you with her, heidi, but i don't think i shall survive it long." "but nobody has said so," the grandmama, who had overheard those words, said kindly. pressing the old woman's hand, she continued: "it is out of the question. heidi will stay with you and make you happy. to see heidi again, we will come up every year to the alm, for we have many reasons to thank the lord there." immediately the face of the grandmother lighted up, and she cried tears of joy. "oh, what wonderful things god is doing for me!" said the grandmother, deeply touched. "how good people are to trouble themselves about such a poor old woman as i. nothing in this world strengthens the belief in a good father in heaven more than this mercy and kindness shown to a poor, useless little woman, like me." "my dear grandmother," said mrs. sesemann, "before god in heaven we are all equally miserable and poor; woe to us, if he should forget us!--but now we must say good-bye; next year we shall come to see you just as soon as we come up the alp. we shall never forget you!" with that, mrs. sesemann shook her hand. it was some time before she was allowed to leave, however, because the grandmother thanked her over and over again, and invoked all heaven's blessings on her and her house. mr. sesemann and his mother went on down, while clara was carried up to spend her last night in the hut. next morning, clara shed hot tears at parting from the beloved place, where such gladness had been hers. heidi consoled her with plans for the coming summer, that was to be even more happy than this one had been. mr. sesemann then arrived, and a few last parting words were exchanged. clara, half crying, suddenly said: "please give my love to peter and the goats, heidi! please greet schwänli especially from me, for she has helped a great deal in making me well. what could i give her?" "you can send her salt, clara. you know how fond she is of that," advised little heidi. "oh, i will surely do that," clara assented. "i'll send her a hundred pounds of salt as a remembrance from me." it was time to go now, and clara was able to ride proudly beside her father. standing on the edge of the slope, heidi waved her hand, her eyes following clara till she had disappeared. * * * * * the bed has arrived. grandmother sleeps so well every night now, that before long she will be stronger than ever. grandmama has not forgotten the cold winter on the alp and has sent a great many warm covers and shawls to the goatherd's hut. grandmother can wrap herself up now and will not have to sit shivering in a corner. in the village a large building is in progress. the doctor has arrived and is living at present in his old quarters. he has taken the uncle's advice and has bought the old ruins that sheltered heidi and her grandfather the winter before. he is rebuilding for himself the portion 