longed to run outside. she was therefore delighted to find herself in her new home and hardly could wait to see the goats again. jumping out of bed, she put on her few things and in a short time went down the ladder and ran outside. peter was already there with his flock, waiting for schwänli and bärli, whom the grandfather was just bringing to join the other goats. "do you want to go with him to the pasture?" asked the grandfather. "yes," cried heidi, clapping her hands. "go now, and wash yourself first, for the sun will laugh at you if he sees how dirty you are. everything is ready there for you," he added, pointing to a large tub of water that stood in the sun. heidi did as she was told, and washed and rubbed herself till her cheeks were glowing. in the meanwhile the grandfather called to peter to come into the hut and bring his bag along. the boy followed the old man, who commanded him to open the bag in which he carried his scanty dinner. the grandfather put into the bag a piece of bread and a slice of cheese, that were easily twice as large as those the boy had in the bag himself. "the little bowl goes in, too," said the uncle, "for the child does not know how to drink straight from the goat, the way you do. she is going to stay with you all day, therefore milk two bowls full for her dinner. look out that she does not fall over the rocks! do you hear?" just then heidi came running in. "grandfather, can the sun still laugh at me?" she asked. the child had rubbed herself so violently with the coarse towel which the grandfather had put beside the tub that her face, neck and arms were as red as a lobster. with a smile the grandfather said: "no, he can't laugh any more now; but when you come home to-night you must go into the tub like a fish. when one goes about like the goats, one gets dirty feet. be off!" they started merrily up the alp. a cloudless, deep-blue sky looked down on them, for the wind had driven away every little cloud in the night. the fresh green mountain-side was bathed in brilliant sunlight, and many blue and yellow flowers had opened. heidi was wild with joy and ran from side to side. in one place she saw big patches of fine red primroses, on another spot blue gentians sparkled in the grass, and everywhere the golden rock-roses were nodding to her. in her transport at finding such treasures, heidi even forgot peter and his goats. she ran far ahead of him and then strayed away off to one side, for the sparkling flowers tempted her here and there. picking whole bunches of them to take home with her, she put them all into her little apron. peter, whose round eyes could only move about slowly, had a hard time looking out for her. the goats were even worse, and only by shouting and whistling, especially by swinging his rod, could he drive them together. "heidi, where are you now?" he called quite angrily. "here," it sounded from somewhere. peter could not see her, for she was sitting on the ground behind a little mound, which was covered with fragrant flowers. the whole air was filled with their perfume, and the child drew it in, in long breaths. "follow me now!" peter called out. "the grandfather has told me to look out for you, and you must not fall over the rocks." "where are they?" asked heidi without even stirring. "way up there, and we have still far to go. if you come quickly, we may see the eagle there and hear him shriek." that tempted heidi, and she came running to peter, with her apron full of flowers. "you have enough now," he declared. "if you pick them all to-day, there won't be any left to-morrow." heidi admitted that, besides which she had her apron already full. from now on she stayed at peter's side. the goats, scenting the pungent herbs, also hurried up without delay. peter generally took his quarters for the day at the foot of a high cliff, which seemed to reach far up into the sky. overhanging rocks on one side made it dangerous, so that the grandfather was wise to warn peter. after they had reached their destination, the boy took off his bag, putting it in a little hollow in the ground. the wind often blew in violent gusts up there, and peter did not want to lose his precious load. then he lay down in the sunny grass, for he was very tired. heidi, taking off her apron, rolled it tightly together and put it beside peter's bag. then, sitting down beside the boy, she looked about her. far down she saw the glistening valley; a large field of snow rose high in front of her. heidi sat a long time without stirring, with peter asleep by her side and the goats climbing about between the bushes. a light breeze fanned her cheek and those big mountains about her made her feel happy as never before. she looked up at the mountain-tops till they all seemed to have faces, and soon they were familiar to her, like old friends. suddenly she heard a loud, sharp scream, and looking up she beheld the largest bird she had ever seen, flying above her. with outspread wings he flew in large circles over heidi's head. "wake up, peter!" heidi called. "look up, peter, and see the eagle there!" peter got wide wake, and then they both watched the bird breathlessly. it rose higher and higher into the azure, till it disappeared at last behind the mountain-peak. "where has it gone?" heidi asked. "home to its nest," was peter's answer. "oh, does it really live way up there? how 