long time ago," said clara, highly amused. "it is atrocious what i have to bear with this child," exclaimed miss rottenmeier, ringing the bell with all her might. when the two servants arrived, they were hardly able to rouse heidi enough to show her to her bed-room. vii miss rottenmeier has an uncomfortable day when heidi opened her eyes next morning, she did not know where she was. she found herself on a high white bed in a spacious room. looking around she observed long white curtains before the windows, several chairs, and a sofa covered with cretonne; in a corner she saw a wash-stand with many curious things standing on it. suddenly heidi remembered all the happenings of the previous day. jumping out of bed, she dressed in a great hurry. she was eager to look at the sky and the ground below, as she had always done at home. what was her disappointment when she found that the windows were too high for her to see anything except the walls and windows opposite. trying to open them, she turned from one to the other, but in vain. the poor child felt like a little bird that is placed in a glittering cage for the first time. at last she had to resign herself, and sat down on a low stool, thinking of the melting snow on the slopes and the first flowers of spring that she had hailed with such delight. suddenly tinette opened the door and said curtly: "breakfast's ready." heidi did not take this for a summons, for the maid's face was scornful and forbidding. she was waiting patiently for what would happen next, when miss rottenmeier burst into the room, saying: "what is the matter, adelheid? didn't you understand? come to breakfast!" heidi immediately followed the lady into the dining-room, where clara greeted her with a smile. she looked much happier than usual, for she expected new things to happen that day. when breakfast had passed without disturbance, the two children were allowed to go into the library together and were soon left alone. "how can i see down to the ground?" heidi asked. "open a window and peep out," replied clara, amused at the question. "but it is impossible to open them," heidi said, sadly. "oh no. you can't do it and i can't help you, either, but if you ask sebastian he'll do it for you." heidi was relieved. the poor child had felt like a prisoner in her room. clara now asked heidi what her home had been like, and heidi told her gladly about her life in the hut. the tutor had arrived in the meantime, but he was not asked to go to the study as usual. miss rottenmeier was very much excited about heidi's coming and all the complications that arose therefrom. she was really responsible for it, having arranged everything herself. she presented the unfortunate case before the teacher, for she wanted him to help her to get rid of the child. mr. candidate, however, was always careful of his judgments, and not afraid of teaching beginners. when the lady saw that he would not side with her, she let him enter the study alone, for the a,b,c held great horrors for her. while she considered many problems, a frightful noise as of something falling was heard in the adjoining room, followed by a cry to sebastian for help. running in, she beheld a pile of books and papers on the floor, with the table-cover on top. a black stream of ink flowed across the length of the room. heidi had disappeared. "there," miss rottenmeier exclaimed, wringing her hands. "everything drenched with ink. did such a thing ever happen before? this child brings nothing but misfortunes on us." the teacher was standing up, looking at the devastation, but clara was highly entertained by these events, and said: "heidi has not done it on purpose and must not be punished. in her hurry to get away she caught on the table-cover and pulled it down. i think she must never have seen a coach in all her life, for when she heard a carriage rumbling by, she rushed out like mad." "didn't i tell you, mr. candidate, that she has no idea whatever about behavior? she does not even know that she has to sit quiet at her lessons. but where has she gone? what would mr. sesemann say if she should run away?" when miss rottenmeier went down-stairs to look for the child, she saw her standing at the open door, looking down the street. "what are you doing here? how can you run away like that?" scolded miss rottenmeier. "i heard the fir-trees rustle, but i can't see them and do not hear them any more," replied heidi, looking in great perplexity down the street. the noise of the passing carriage had reminded her of the roaring of the south-wind on the alp. "fir-trees? what nonsense! we are not in a wood. come with me now to see what you have done." when heidi saw the devastation that she had caused, she was greatly surprised, for she had not noticed it in her hurry. "this must never happen again," said the lady sternly. "you must sit quiet at your lessons; if you get up again i shall tie you to your chair. do you hear me?" heidi understood, and gave a promise to sit quietly during her lessons from that time on. after the servants had straightened the room, it was late, and there was no more time for studies. nobody had time to yawn that morning. in the afternoon, while clara was resting, heidi was left to herself. she planted herself in the hall and waited for the butler to come up-stairs with the silver things. when he reached the head of the stairs, she said to him: "i want to ask you something." she saw that the butler seemed angry, so she reassured him by 