realized that it would hurt her kind friends if she tried to go home again. she knew now that she could not leave, as her aunt deta had promised, for they all, especially clara and her father and the old lady, would think her ungrateful. but the burden grew heavier in her heart and she lost her appetite, and got paler and paler. she could not get to sleep at night from longing to see the mountains with the flowers and the sunshine, and only in her dreams she would be happy. when she woke up in the morning, she always found herself on her high white bed, far away from home. burying her head in her pillow, she would often weep a long, long time. mrs. sesemann had noticed the child's unhappiness, but let a few days pass by, hoping for a change. but the change never came, and often heidi's eyes were red even in the early morning. so she called the child to her room one day and said, with great sympathy in her voice: "tell me, heidi, what is the matter with you? what is making you so sad?" but as heidi did not want to appear thankless, she replied sadly: "i can't tell you." "no? can't you tell clara perhaps?" "oh, no, i can't tell anyone," heidi said, looking so unhappy that the old lady's heart was filled with pity. "i tell you something, little girl," she continued. "if you have a sorrow that you cannot tell to anyone, you can go to our father in heaven. you can tell him everything that troubles you, and if we ask him he can help us and take our suffering away. do you understand me, child? don't you pray every night? don't you thank him for all his gifts and ask him to protect you from evil?" "oh no, i never do that," replied the child. "have you never prayed, heidi? do you know what i mean?" "i only prayed with my first grandmother, but it is so long ago, that i have forgotten." "see, heidi, i understand now why you are so unhappy. we all need somebody to help us, and just think how wonderful it is, to be able to go to the lord, when something distresses us and causes us pain. we can tell him everything and ask him to comfort us, when nobody else can do it. he can give us happiness and joy." heidi was gladdened by these tidings, and asked: "can we tell him everything, everything?" "yes, heidi, everything." the child, withdrawing her hand from the grandmama, said hurriedly, "can i go now?" "yes, of course," was the reply, and with this heidi ran to her room. sitting down on a stool she folded her hands and poured out her heart to god, imploring him to help her and let her go home to her grandfather. about a week later, mr. candidate asked to see mrs. sesemann, to tell her of something unusual that had occurred. being called to the lady's room, he began: "mrs. sesemann, something has happened that i never expected," and with many more words the happy grandmama was told that heidi had suddenly learned to read with the utmost correctness, most rare with beginners. "many strange things happen in this world," mrs. sesemann remarked, while they went over to the study to witness heidi's new accomplishment. heidi was sitting close to clara, reading her a story; she seemed amazed at the strange, new world that had opened up before her. at supper heidi found the large book with the beautiful pictures on her plate, and looking doubtfully at grandmama, she saw the old lady nod. "now it belongs to you, heidi," she said. "forever? also when i am going home?" heidi inquired, confused with joy. "certainly, forever!" the grandmama assured her. "tomorrow we shall begin to read it." "but heidi, you must not go home; no, not for many years," clara exclaimed, "especially when grandmama goes away. you must stay with me." heidi still looked at her book before going to bed that night, and this book became her dearest treasure. she would look at the beautiful pictures and read all the stories aloud to clara. grandmama would quietly listen and explain something here and there, making it more beautiful than before. heidi loved the pictures with the shepherd best of all; they told the story of the prodigal son, and the child would read and re-read it till she nearly knew it all by heart. since heidi had learned to read and possessed the book, the days seemed to fly, and the time had come near that the grandmama had fixed for her departure. xi heidi gains in some respects and loses in others the grandmama sent for heidi every day after dinner, while clara was resting and miss rottenmeier disappeared into her room. she talked to heidi and amused her in various ways, showing her how to make clothes for pretty little dolls that she had brought. unconsciously heidi had learned to sew, and made now the sweetest dresses and coats for the little people out of lovely materials the grandmama would give her. often heidi would read to the old lady, for the oftener she read over the stories the dearer they became to her. the child lived everything through with the people in the tales and was always happy to be with them again. but she never looked really cheerful and her eyes never sparkled merrily as before. in the last week of mrs. sesemann's stay, heidi was called again to the old lady's room. the child entered with her beloved book under her arm. mrs. sesemann drew heidi close to her, and laying the book aside, she said: "come, child, and tell me why you are so sad. do you still have the same sorrow?" "yes," heidi replied. "did you confide it to our lord?" "yes." "do you pray to him every 