is only one punishment for you. i am going to send you to the cellar, to think over your dreadful misdeeds, in company with the rats." a cellar held no terrors for heidi, for in her grandfather's cellar fresh milk and the good cheese had been kept, and no rats had lodged there. but clara shrieked: "oh, miss rottenmeier, you must wait till papa comes home, and then he can punish heidi." the lady unwillingly replied: "all right, clara, but i shall also speak a few words to mr. sesemann." with those words she left the room. since the child's arrival everything had been upset, and the lady often felt discouraged, though nothing remarkable happened for a few days. clara, on the contrary, enjoyed her companion's society, for she always did funny things. in her lesson she could never get her letters straight. they meant absolutely nothing to her, except that they would remind her of goats and eagles. the girls always spent their evenings together, and heidi would entertain her friend with tales of her former life, till her longing grew so great that she added: "i have to go home now. i must go tomorrow." clara's soothing words and the prospect of more rolls for the grandmother kept the child. every day after dinner she was left alone in her room for some hours. thinking of the green fields at home, of the sparkling flowers on the mountains, she would sit in a corner till her desire for all those things became too great to bear. her aunt had clearly told her that she might return, if she wished to do so, so one day she resolved to leave for the alm-hut. in a great hurry she packed the bread in the red shawl, and putting on her old straw hat, started off. the poor child did not get very far. at the door she encountered miss rottenmeier, who stared at heidi in mute surprise. "what are you up to?" she exploded. "haven't i forbidden you to run away? you look like a vagabond!" "i was only going home," whispered the frightened child. "what, you want to run away from this house? what would mr. sesemann say? what is it that does not suit you here? don't you get better treatment than you deserve? have you ever before had such food, service and such a room? answer!" "no," was the reply. "don't i know that?" the furious lady proceeded. "what a thankless child you are, just idle and good-for-nothing!" but heidi could not bear it any longer. she loudly wailed: "oh, i want to go home. what will poor snowhopper do without me? grandmother is waiting for me every day. poor thistlefinch gets blows if peter gets no cheese, and i must see the sun again when he says good-night to the mountains. how the eagle would screech if he saw all the people here in frankfurt!" "for mercy's sake, the child is crazy!" exclaimed miss rottenmeier, running up the stairs. in her hurry she had bumped into sebastian, who was just then coming down. "bring the unlucky child up!" she called to him, rubbing her head. "all right, many thanks," answered the butler, rubbing his head, too, for he had encountered something far harder than she had. when the butler came down, he saw heidi standing near the door with flaming eyes, trembling all over. cheerfully he asked: "what has happened, little one? do not take it to heart, and cheer up. she nearly made a hole in my head just now, but we must not get discouraged. oh, no!--come, up with you; she said so!" heidi walked up-stairs very slowly. seeing her so changed, sebastian said: "don't give in! don't be so sad! you have been so courageous till now; i have never heard you cry yet. come up now, and when the lady's away we'll go and look at the kittens. they are running round like wild!" nodding cheerlessly, the child disappeared in her room. that night at supper miss rottenmeier watched heidi constantly, but nothing happened. the child sat as quiet as a mouse, hardly touching her food, except the little roll. talking with the tutor next morning, miss rottenmeier told him her fears about heidi's mind. but the teacher had more serious troubles still, for heidi had not even learned her a,b,c in all this time. heidi was sorely in need of some clothes, so clara had given her some. miss rottenmeier was just busy arranging the child's wardrobe, when she suddenly returned. "adelheid," she said contemptuously, "what do i find? a big pile of bread in your wardrobe! i never heard the like. yes, clara, it is true." then, calling tinette, she ordered her to take away the bread and the old straw hat she had found. "no, don't! i must keep my hat! the bread is for grandmother," cried heidi in despair. "you stay here, while we take the rubbish away," said the lady sternly. heidi threw herself down now on clara's chair and sobbed as if her heart would break. "now i can't bring grandmother any rolls! oh, they were for grandmother!" she lamented. "heidi, don't cry any more," clara begged. "listen! when you go home some day, i am going to give you as many rolls as you had, and more. they will be much softer and better than those stale ones you have kept. those were not fit to eat, heidi. stop now, please, and don't cry any more!" only after a long, long time did heidi become quiet. when she had heard clara's promise, she cried: "are you really going to give me as many as i had?" at supper, heidi's eyes were swollen and it was still hard for her to keep from crying. sebastian made strange signs to her that she did not understand. what did he mean? later, though, when she climbed into her high bed, she found her old beloved straw hat hidden 