a healthy place to sleep," she said, looking out through the window. the grandfather, with clara, was coming up, too, with heidi following. clara was perfectly entranced. "what a lovely place to sleep! oh, heidi, you can look right up to the sky from your bed. what a good smell! you can hear the fir-trees roar here, can't you? oh, i never saw a more delightful bed-room!" the uncle, looking at the old lady, said now: "i have an idea that it would give clara new strength to stay up here with us a little while. of course, i only mean if you did not object. you have brought so many wraps that we can easily make a soft bed for clara here. my dear lady, you can easily leave the care to me. i'll undertake it gladly." the children screamed for joy, and grandmama's face was beaming. "what a fine man you are!" she burst out. "i was just thinking myself that a stay here would strengthen the child, but then i thought of the care and trouble for you. and now you have offered to do it, as if it was nothing at all. how can i thank you enough, uncle?" after shaking hands many times, the two prepared clara's bed, which, thanks to the old lady's precautions, was soon so soft that the hay could not be felt through at all. the uncle had carried his new patient back to her rolling-chair, and there they found her sitting, with heidi beside her. they were eagerly talking of their plans for the coming weeks. when they were told that clara might stay for a month or so, their faces beamed more than ever. the guide, with the horse, and the carriers of the chair, now appeared, but the last two were not needed any more and could be sent away. when the grandmother got ready to leave, clara called gaily to her: "oh grandmama, it won't be long, for you must often come and see us." while the uncle was leading the horse down the steep incline, the grandmama told him that she would go back to ragatz, for the dörfli was too lonely for her. she also promised to come back from time to time. before the grandfather had returned, peter came racing down to the hut with all his goats. seeing heidi, they ran up to her in haste, and so clara made the acquaintance of schwänli and bärli and all the others. peter, however, kept away, only sending furious looks at the two girls. when they bade him good-night, he only ran away, beating the air with his stick. the end of the joyous day had come. the two children were both lying in their beds. "oh, heidi!" clara exclaimed, "i can see so many glittering stars, and i feel as if we were driving in a high carriage straight into the sky." "yes, and do you know why the stars twinkle so merrily?" inquired heidi. "no, but tell me." "because they know that god in heaven looks after us mortals and we never need to fear. see, they twinkle and show us how to be merry, too. but clara, we must not forget to pray to god and ask him to think of us and keep us safe." sitting up in bed, they then said their evening prayer. as soon as heidi lay down, she fell asleep. but clara could not sleep quite yet, it was too wonderful to see the stars from her bed. in truth she had never seen them before, because in frankfurt all the blinds were always down long before the stars came out, and at night she had never been outside the house. she could hardly keep her eyes shut, and had to open them again and again to watch the twinkling, glistening stars, till her eyes closed at last and she saw two big, glittering stars in her dream. xxi of further events on the alp the sun was just rising, and the alm-uncle was watching how mountain and dale awoke to the new day, and the clouds above grew brighter. next, the old man turned to go back into the hut, and softly climbed the ladder. clara, having just a moment ago opened her eyes, looked about her in amazement. bright sunbeams danced on her bed. where was she? but soon she discovered her sleeping friend, and heard the grandfather's cheery voice: "how did you sleep? not tired?" clara, feeling fresh and rested, said that she had never slept better in all her life. heidi was soon awake, too, and lost no time in coming down to join clara, who was already sitting in the sun. a cool morning breeze fanned their cheeks, and the spicy fragrance from the fir-trees filled their lungs with every breath. clara had never experienced such well-being in all her life. she had never breathed such pure, cool morning air and never felt such warm, delicious sunshine on her feet and hands. it surpassed all her expectations. "oh, heidi, i wish i could always stay up here with you!" she said. "now you can see that everything is as beautiful as i told you," heidi replied triumphantly. "up on the alp with grandfather is the loveliest spot in all the world." the grandfather was just coming out of the shed with two full bowls of steaming, snow-white milk. handing one to each of the children, he said to clara: "this will do you good, little girl. it comes from schwänli and will give you strength. to your health! just drink it!" he said encouragingly, for clara had hesitated a little. but when she saw that heidi's bowl was nearly empty already, she also drank without even stopping. oh, how good it was! it tasted like cinnamon and sugar. "we'll take two tomorrow," said the grandfather. after their breakfast, peter arrived. while the goats were rushing up to heidi, bleating loudly, the grandfather 