hurriedly came out to see what had happened. "grandfather! come here! look, look!" a strange procession was winding up the alm. first marched two men, carrying an open sedan chair with a young girl in it, wrapped up in many shawls. then came a stately lady on horseback, who, talking with a young guide beside her, looked eagerly right and left. then an empty rolling-chair, carried by a young fellow, was followed by a porter who had so many covers, shawls and furs piled up on his basket that they towered high above his head. "they are coming! they are coming!" cried heidi in her joy, and soon the party had arrived at the top. great was the happiness of the children at seeing each other again. when grandmama had descended from her horse, she tenderly greeted heidi first, and then turned to the uncle, who had approached the group. the two met like two old friends, they had heard so much about each other. after the first words were exchanged, the grandmother exclaimed: "my dear uncle, what a wonderful residence you have. who would have ever thought it! kings could envy you here! oh, how well my heidi is looking, just like a little rose!" she continued, drawing the child closely to her side and patting her cheeks. "what glory everywhere! clara, what do you say to it all?" clara, looking about her rapturously, cried: "oh, how wonderful, how glorious! i have never dreamt it could be as beautiful as that. oh grandmama, i wish i could stay here!" the uncle had busied himself in the meantime with getting clara's rolling-chair for her. then, going up to the girl, he gently lifted her into her seat. putting some covers over her knees, he tucked her feet in warmly. it seemed as if the grandfather had done nothing else all his life than nurse lame people. "my dear uncle," said the grandmama, surprised, "please tell me where you learned that, for i shall send all the nurses i know here immediately." the uncle smiled faintly, while he replied: "it comes more from care than study." his face became sad. before his eyes had risen bygone times. for that was the way he used to care for his poor wounded captain, whom he had found in sicily after a violent battle. he alone had been allowed to nurse him till his death, and now he would take just as good care of poor, lame clara. when clara had looked a long time at the cloudless sky above and all the rocky crags, she said longingly: "i wish i could walk round the hut to the fir-trees. if i only could see all the things you told me so much about!" heidi pushed with all her might, and behold! the chair rolled easily over the dry grass. when they had come into the little grove, clara could not see her fill of those splendid trees that must have stood there so many, many years. although the people had changed and vanished, they had remained the same, ever looking down into the valley. when they passed the empty goat-shed, clara said pitifully: "oh grandmama, if i could only wait up here for schwänli and bärli! i am afraid i shan't see peter and his goats, if we have to go away so soon again." "dear child, enjoy now what you can," said the grandmama, who had followed. "oh, what wonderful flowers!" exclaimed clara again; "whole bushes of exquisite, red blossoms. oh, if i could only pick some of those bluebells!" heidi, immediately gathering a large bunch, put them in clara's lap. "clara, this is really nothing in comparison with the many flowers in the pasture. you must come up once and see them. there are so many that the ground seems golden with them. if you ever sit down among them, you will feel as if you could never get up any more, it is so beautiful." "oh, grandmama, do you think i can ever go up there?" clara asked with a wild longing in her eyes. "if i could only walk with you, heidi, and climb round everywhere!" "i'll push you!" heidi said for comfort. to show how easy it was, she pushed the chair at such a rate that it would have tumbled down the mountain, if the grandfather had not stopped it at the last moment. it was time for dinner now. the table was spread near the bench, and soon everybody sat down. the grandmother was so overcome by the view and the delicious wind that fanned her cheek that she remarked: "what a wondrous place this is! i have never seen its like! but what do i see?" she continued. "i think you are actually eating your second piece of cheese, clara?" "oh grandmama, it tastes better than all the things we get in ragatz," replied the child, eagerly eating the savory dish. "don't stop, our mountain wind helps along where the cooking is faulty!" contentedly said the old man. during the meal the uncle and the grandmama had soon got into a lively conversation. they seemed to agree on many things, and understood each other like old friends. a little later the grandmama looked over to the west. "we must soon start, clara, for the sun is already low; our guides will be here shortly." clara's face had become sad, and she entreated: "oh, please let us stay here another hour or so. we haven't even seen the hut yet. i wish the day were twice as long." the grandmama assented to clara's wish to go inside. when the rolling-chair was found too broad for the door, the uncle quietly lifted clara in his strong arms and carried her in. grandmama was eagerly looking about her, glad to see everything so neat. then going up the little ladder to the hay-loft, she discovered heidi's bed. "is that your bed, heidi? what a delicious perfume! it must be 