every owner would come and get his or her goat. these owners were mostly small boys and girls and, as the goats were friendly, they did not fear them. that was the only time peter spent with other children, the rest of the day the animals were his sole companions. at home lived his mother and an old blind grandmother, but he only spent enough time in the hut to swallow his bread and milk for breakfast and the same repast for supper. after that he sought his bed to sleep. he always left early in the morning and at night he came home late, so that he could be with his friends as long as possible. his father had met with an accident some years ago; he also had been called peter the goatherd. his mother, whose name was brigida, was called "goatherd peter's wife" and his blind grandmother was called by young and old from many miles about just "grandmother." deta waited about ten minutes to see if the children were coming up behind with the goats. as she could not find them anywhere, she climbed up a little higher to get a better view down the valley from there, and peered from side to side with marks of great impatience on her countenance. the children in the meantime were ascending slowly in a zigzag way, peter always knowing where to find all sorts of good grazing places for his goats where they could nibble. thus they strayed from side to side. the poor little girl had followed the boy only with the greatest effort and she was panting in her heavy clothes. she was so hot and uncomfortable that she only climbed by exerting all her strength. she did not say anything but looked enviously at peter, who jumped about so easily in his light trousers and bare feet. she envied even more the goats that climbed over bushes, stones, and steep inclines with their slender legs. suddenly sitting down on the ground the child swiftly took off her shoes and stockings. getting up she undid the heavy shawl and the two little dresses. out she slipped without more ado and stood up in only a light petticoat. in sheer delight at the relief, she threw up her dimpled arms, that were bare up to her short sleeves. to save the trouble of carrying them, her aunt had dressed her in her sunday clothes over her workday garments. heidi arranged her dresses neatly in a heap and joined peter and the goats. she was now as light-footed as any of them. when peter, who had not paid much attention, saw her suddenly in her light attire, he grinned. looking back, he saw the little heap of dresses on the ground and then he grinned yet more, till his mouth seemed to reach from ear to ear; but he said never a word. the child, feeling free and comfortable, started to converse with peter, and he had to answer many questions. she asked him how many goats he had, and where he led them, what he did with them when he got there, and so forth. [illustration: she undid the heavy shawl and the two little dresses] at last the children reached the summit in front of the hut. when deta saw the little party of climbers she cried out shrilly: "heidi, what have you done? what a sight you are! where are your dresses and your shawl? are the new shoes gone that i just bought for you, and the new stockings that i made myself? where are they all, heidi?" the child quietly pointed down and said "there." the aunt followed the direction of her finger and descried a little heap with a small red dot in the middle, which she recognized as the shawl. "unlucky child!" deta said excitedly. "what does all this mean? why have you taken your things all off?" "because i do not need them," said the child, not seeming in the least repentant of her deed. "how can you be so stupid, heidi? have you lost your senses?" the aunt went on, in a tone of mingled vexation and reproach. "who do you think will go way down there to fetch those things up again? it is half-an-hour's walk. please, peter, run down and get them. do not stand and stare at me as if you were glued to the spot." "i am late already," replied peter, and stood without moving from the place where, with his hands in his trousers' pockets, he had witnessed the violent outbreak of heidi's aunt. "there you are, standing and staring, but that won't get you further," said deta. "i'll give you this if you go down." with that she held a five-penny-piece under his eyes. that made peter start and in a great hurry he ran down the straightest path. he arrived again in so short a time that deta had to praise him and gave him her little coin without delay. he did not often get such a treasure, and therefore his face was beaming and he laughingly dropped the money deep into his pocket. "if you are going up to the uncle, as we are, you can carry the pack till we get there," said deta. they still had to climb a steep ascent that lay behind peter's hut. the boy readily took the things and followed deta, his left arm holding the bundle and his right swinging the stick. heidi jumped along gaily by his side with the goats. after three quarters of an hour they reached the height where the hut of the old man stood on a prominent rock, exposed to every wind, but bathed in the full sunlight. from there you could gaze far down into the valley. behind the hut stood three old fir-trees with great shaggy branches. further back the old grey rocks rose high and sheer. above them you could see green and fertile pastures, 