seemed to stick in his throat. soon after their belated dinner, the grandfather was seen climbing up the alp. heidi ran to meet him, confusedly telling him of the great event. the old man's face shone at this news. going over to clara, he said: "so you have risked it? now we have won." then picking her up, he put one arm around her waist, and the other one he stretched out as support, and with his help she marched more firmly than ever. heidi jumped and bounded gaily by their side. in all this excitement the grandfather did not lose his judgment, and before long lifted clara on his arm to carry her home. he knew that too much exertion would be dangerous, and rest was needed for the tired girl. peter, arriving in the village late that day, saw a large disputing crowd. they were all standing about an interesting object, and everybody pushed and fought for a chance to get nearest. it was no other than the chair. "i saw it when they carried it up," peter heard the baker say. "i bet it was worth at least five hundred francs. i should just like to know how it has happened." "the wind might have blown it down," remarked barbara, who was staring open-mouthed at the beautiful velvet cushions. "the uncle said so himself." "it is a good thing if nobody else has done it," continued the baker. "when the gentleman from frankfurt hears what has happened, he'll surely find out all about it, and i should pity the culprit. i am glad i haven't been up on the alm for so long, else they might suspect me, as they would anybody who happened to be up there at the time." many more opinions were uttered, but peter had heard enough. he quietly slipped away and went home. what if they should find out he had done it? a policeman might arrive any time now and they might take him away to prison. peter's hair stood up on end at this alarming thought. he was so troubled when he came home that he did not answer any questions and even refused his dish of potatoes. hurriedly creeping into bed, he groaned. "i am sure peter has eaten sorrel again, and that makes him groan so," said his mother. "you must give him a little more bread in the morning, brigida. take a piece of mine," said the compassionate grandmother. when clara and heidi were lying in their beds that night, glancing up at the shining stars, heidi remarked: "didn't you think to-day, clara, that it is fortunate god does not always give us what we pray for fervently, because he knows of something better?" "what do you mean, heidi?" asked clara. "you see, when i was in frankfurt i prayed and prayed to come home again, and when i couldn't, i thought he had forgotten me. but if i had gone away so soon you would never have come here and would never have got well." clara, becoming thoughtful, said: "but, heidi, then we could not pray for anything any more, because we would feel that he always knows of something better." "but, clara, we must pray to god every day to show we don't forget that all gifts come from him. grandmama has told me that god forgets us if we forget him. but if some wish remains unfulfilled we must show our confidence in him, for he knows best." "how did you ever think of that?" asked clara. "grandmama told me, but i know that it is so. we must thank god to-day that he has made you able to walk, clara." "i am glad that you have reminded me, heidi, for i have nearly forgotten it in my excitement." the children both prayed and sent their thanks up to heaven for the restoration of the invalid. next morning a letter was written to grandmama, inviting her to come up to the alp within a week's time, for the children had planned to take her by surprise. clara hoped then to be able to walk alone, with heidi for her guide. the following days were happier still for clara. every morning she awoke with her heart singing over and over again, "now i am well! now i can walk like other people!" she progressed, and took longer walks every day. her appetite grew amazingly, and the grandfather had to make larger slices of the bread and butter that, to his delight, disappeared so rapidly. he had to fill bowl after bowl of the foaming milk for the hungry children. in that way they reached the end of the week that was to bring the grandmama. [illustration] xxiii parting to meet again a day before her visit the grandmama had sent a letter to announce her coming. peter brought it up with him next morning. the grandfather was already before the hut with the children and his merry goats. his face looked proud, as he contemplated the rosy faces of the girls and the shining hair of his two goats. peter, approaching, neared the uncle slowly. as soon as he had delivered the letter, he sprang back shyly, looking about him as if he was afraid. then with a leap he started off. "i should like to know why peter behaves like the big turk when he is afraid of the rod," said heidi, watching his strange behavior. "maybe peter fears a rod that he deserves," said the old man. all the way peter was tormented with fear. he could not help thinking of the policeman who was coming from frankfurt to fetch him to prison. it was a busy morning for heidi, who put the hut in order for the expected visitor. the time went by quickly, and soon everything was ready to welcome the good grandmama. the grandfather also returned from a walk, on which he had gathered a glorious bunch of deep-blue gentians. 