horses ready and tinette was told to prepare heidi for her departure while sebastian was commissioned to fetch heidi's aunt. mr. sesemann instructed the housekeeper to pack a trunk in all haste for heidi. miss rottenmeier experienced an extreme disappointment, for she had hoped for an explanation of the great mystery. but mr. sesemann, evidently not in the mood to converse further, went to his daughter's room. clara had been wakened by the unusual noises and was listening eagerly. her father told her of what had happened and how the doctor had ordered heidi back to her home, because her condition was serious and might get worse. she might even climb the roof, or be exposed to similar dangers, if she was not cured at once. clara was painfully surprised and tried to prevent her father from carrying out his plan. he remained firm, however, promising to take her to switzerland himself the following summer, if she was good and sensible now. so the child, resigning herself, begged to have heidi's trunk packed in her room. mr. sesemann encouraged her to get together a good outfit for her little friend. heidi's aunt had arrived in the meantime. being told to take her niece home with her, she found no end of excuses, which plainly showed that she did not want to do it; for deta well remembered the uncle's parting words. mr. sesemann dismissed her and summoned sebastian. the butler was told to get ready for travelling with the child. he was to go to basle that day and spend the night at a good hotel which his master named. the next day the child was to be brought to her home. "listen, sebastian," mr. sesemann said, "and do exactly as i tell you. i know the hotel in basle, and if you show my card they will give you good accommodations. go to the child's room and barricade the windows, so that they can only be opened by the greatest force. when heidi has gone to bed, lock the door from outside, for the child walks in her sleep and might come to harm in the strange hotel. she might get up and open the door; do you understand?" "oh!--oh!--so it was she?" exclaimed the butler. "yes, it was! you are a coward, and you can tell john he is the same. such foolish men, to be afraid!" with that mr. sesemann went to his room to write a letter to heidi's grandfather. sebastian, feeling ashamed, said to himself that he ought to have resisted john and found out alone. heidi was dressed in her sunday frock and stood waiting for further commands. mr. sesemann called her now. "good-morning, mr. sesemann," heidi said when she entered. "what do you think about it, little one?" he asked her. heidi looked up to him in amazement. "you don't seem to know anything about it," laughed mr. sesemann. tinette had not even told the child, for she thought it beneath her dignity to speak to the vulgar heidi. "you are going home to-day." "home?" heidi repeated in a low voice. she had to gasp, so great was her surprise. "wouldn't you like to hear something about it?" asked mr. sesemann smiling. "oh yes, i should like to," said the blushing child. "good, good," said the kind gentleman. "sit down and eat a big breakfast now, for you are going away right afterwards." the child could not even swallow a morsel, though she tried to eat out of obedience. it seemed to her as if it was only a dream. "go to clara, heidi, till the carriage comes," mr. sesemann said kindly. heidi had been wishing to go, and now she ran to clara's room, where a huge trunk was standing. "heidi, look at the things i had packed for you. do you like them?" clara asked. there were a great many lovely things in it, but heidi jumped for joy when she discovered a little basket with twelve round white rolls for the grandmother. the children had forgotten that the moment for parting had come, when the carriage was announced. heidi had to get all her own treasures from her room yet. the grandmama's book was carefully packed, and the red shawl that miss rottenmeier had purposely left behind. then putting on her pretty hat, she left her room to say good-bye to clara. there was not much time left to do so, for mr. sesemann was waiting to put heidi in the carriage. when miss rottenmeier, who was standing on the stairs to bid farewell to her pupil, saw the red bundle in heidi's hand, she seized it and threw it on the ground. heidi looked imploringly at her kind protector, and mr. sesemann, seeing how much she treasured it, gave it back to her. the happy child at parting thanked him for all his goodness. she also sent a message of thanks to the good old doctor, whom she suspected to be the real cause of her going. while heidi was being lifted into the carriage, mr. sesemann assured her that clara and he would never forget her. sebastian followed with heidi's basket and a large bag with provisions. mr. sesemann called out: "happy journey!" and the carriage rolled away. only when heidi was sitting in the train did she become conscious of where she was going. she knew now that she would really see her grandfather and the grandmother again, also peter and the goats. her only fear was that the poor blind grandmother might have died while she was away. the thing she looked forward to most was giving the soft white rolls to the grandmother. while she was musing over all these things, she fell asleep. in basle she was roused by sebastian, for there they were to spend the night. the next morning they started off again, and it took them many hours before they reached mayenfeld. when sebastian stood on the platform of the station, 