saying that she did not mean any harm. "all right, miss, what is it?" "my name is not miss, why don't you call me heidi?" "miss rottenmeier told me to call you miss." "did she? well then, it must be so. i have three names already," sighed the child. "what can i do for you?" asked sebastian now. "can you open a window for me?" "certainly," he replied. sebastian got a stool for heidi, for the window-sill was too high for her to see over. in great disappointment, heidi turned her head away. "i don't see anything but a street of stone. is it the same way on the other side of the house?" "yes." "where do you go to look far down on everything?" "on a church-tower. do you see that one over there with the golden dome? from there you can overlook everything." heidi immediately stepped down from the stool and ran down-stairs. opening the door, she found herself in the street, but she could not see the tower any more. she wandered on from street to street, not daring to accost any of the busy people. passing a corner, she saw a boy who had a barrel-organ on his back and a curious animal on his arm. heidi ran to him and asked: "where is the tower with the golden dome?" "don't know," was the reply. "who can tell me?" "don't know." "can you show me another church with a tower?" "of course i can." "then come and show me." "what are you going to give me for it?" said the boy, holding out his hand. heidi had nothing in her pocket but a little flower-picture. clara had only given it to her this morning, so she was loath to part with it. the temptation to look far down into the valley was too great for her, though, and she offered him the gift. the boy shook his head, to heidi's satisfaction. "what else do you want?" "money." "i have none, but clara has some. how much must i give you?" "twenty pennies." "all right, but come." while they were wandering down the street, heidi found out what a barrel-organ was, for she had never seen one. when they arrived before an old church with a tower, heidi was puzzled what to do next, but having discovered a bell, she pulled it with all her might. the boy agreed to wait for heidi and show her the way home if she gave him a double fee. the lock creaked now from inside, and an old man opened the door. in an angry voice, he said: "how do you dare to ring for me? can't you see that it is only for those who want to see the tower?" "but i do," said heidi. "what do you want to see? did anybody send you?" asked the man. "no; but i want to look down from up there." "get home and don't try it again." with that the tower-keeper was going to shut the door, but heidi held his coat-tails and pleaded with him to let her come. the tower-keeper looked at the child's eyes, which were nearly full of tears. "all right, come along, if you care so much," he said, taking her by the hand. the two climbed up now many, many steps, which got narrower all the time. when they had arrived on top, the old man lifted heidi up to the open window. heidi saw nothing but a sea of chimneys, roofs and towers, and her heart sank. "oh, dear, it's different from the way i thought it would be," she said. "there! what could such a little girl know about a view? we'll go down now and you must promise never to ring at my tower any more." on their way they passed an attic, where a large grey cat guarded her new family in a basket. this cat caught half-a-dozen mice every day for herself, for the old tower was full of rats and mice. heidi gazed at her in surprise, and was delighted when the old man opened the basket. "what charming kittens, what cunning little creatures!" she exclaimed in her delight, when she saw them crawling about, jumping and tumbling. "would you like to have one?" the old man asked. "for me? to keep?" heidi asked, for she could not believe her ears. "yes, of course. you can have several if you have room for them," the old man said, glad to find a good home for the kittens. how happy heidi was! of course there was enough room in the huge house, and clara would be delighted when she saw the cunning things. "how can i take them with me?" the child asked, after she had tried in vain to catch one. "i can bring them to your house, if you tell me where you live," said heidi's new friend, while he caressed the old cat, who had lived with him many years. "bring them to mr. sesemann's house; there is a golden dog on the door, with a ring in his mouth." the old man had lived in the tower a long time and knew everybody; sebastian also was a special friend of his. "i know," he said. "but to whom shall i send them? do you belong to mr. sesemann?" "no. please send them to clara; she will like them, i am sure." heidi could hardly tear herself away from the pretty things, so the old man put one kitten in each of her pockets to console her. after that she went away. the boy was waiting patiently for her, and when she had taken leave of the tower-keeper, she asked the boy: "do you know where mr. sesemann's house is?" "no," was the reply. she described it as well as she could, till the boy remembered it. off they started, and soon heidi found herself pulling the door-bell. when sebastian arrived he said: "hurry up." heidi went 