did not own fine cattle like his father, but only swine; his clothes were rags, and for food he only got the husks on which the pigs were fed. often he would think what a good home he had left, and when he remembered how good his father had been to him and his own ungratefulness, he would cry from repentance and longing. then he said to himself: 'i shall go to my father and ask his forgiveness.' when he approached his former home, his father came out to meet him--" "what do you think will happen now?" heidi asked. "you think that the father is angry and will say: 'didn't i tell you?' but just listen: 'and his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck. and the son said: father, i have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. but the father said to his servants: bring forth the best robe and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet; and bring hither the fatted calf and kill it; and let us eat and be merry: for this my son was dead and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.' and they began to be merry." "isn't it a beautiful story, grandfather?" asked heidi, when he sat silently beside her. "yes, heidi, it is," said the grandfather, but so seriously that heidi quietly looked at the pictures. "look how happy he is," she said, pointing to it. a few hours later, when heidi was sleeping soundly, the old man climbed up the ladder. placing a little lamp beside the sleeping child, he watched her a long, long time. her little hands were folded and her rosy face looked confident and peaceful. the old man now folded his hands and said in a low voice, while big tears rolled down his cheeks: "father, i have sinned against heaven and thee, and am no more worthy to be thy son!" the next morning found the uncle standing before the door, looking about him over valley and mountain. a few early bells sounded from below and the birds sang their morning anthems. re-entering the house, he called: "heidi, get up! the sun is shining! put on a pretty dress, for we are going to church!" that was a new call, and heidi obeyed quickly. when the child came downstairs in her smart little frock, she opened her eyes wide. "oh, grandfather!" she exclaimed, "i have never seen you in your sunday coat with the silver buttons. oh, how fine you look!" the old man, turning to the child, said with a smile: "you look nice, too; come now!" with heidi's hand in his they wandered down together. the nearer they came to the village, the louder and richer the bells resounded. "oh grandfather, do you hear it? it seems like a big, high feast," said heidi. when they entered the church, all the people were singing. though they sat down on the last bench behind, the people had noticed their presence and whispered it from ear to ear. when the pastor began to preach, his words were a loud thanksgiving that moved all his hearers. after the service the old man and the child walked to the parsonage. the clergyman had opened the door and received them with friendly words. "i have come to ask your forgiveness for my harsh words," said the uncle. "i want to follow your advice to spend the winter here among you. if the people look at me askance, i can't expect any better. i am sure, mr. pastor, you will not do so." [illustration: with heidi's hand in his they wandered down together] the pastor's friendly eyes sparkled, and with many a kind word he commended the uncle for this change, and putting his hand on heidi's curly hair, ushered them out. thus the people, who had been all talking together about this great event, could see that their clergyman shook hands with the old man. the door of the parsonage was hardly shut, when the whole assembly came forward with outstretched hands and friendly greetings. great seemed to be their joy at the old man's resolution; some of the people even accompanied him on his homeward way. when they had parted at last, the uncle looked after them with his face shining as with an inward light. heidi looked up to him and said: "grandfather, you have never looked so beautiful!" "do you think so, child?" he said with a smile. "you see, heidi, i am more happy than i deserve; to be at peace with god and men makes one's heart feel light. god has been good to me, to send you back." when they arrived at peter's hut, the grandfather opened the door and entered. "how do you do, grandmother," he called out. "i think we must start to mend again, before the fall wind comes." "oh my god, the uncle!" exclaimed the grandmother in joyous surprise. "how happy i am to be able to thank you for what you have done, uncle! thank you, god bless you for it." with trembling joy the grandmother shook hands with her old friend. "there is something else i want to say to you, uncle," she continued. "if i have ever hurt you in any way, do not punish me. do not let heidi go away again before i die. i cannot tell you what heidi means to me!" so saying, she held the clinging child to her. "no danger of that, grandmother, i hope we shall all stay together now for many years to come." brigida now showed heidi's feather hat to the old man and asked him to take it back. but the uncle asked her to keep it, since heidi had given it to her. "what blessings this child has brought from frankfurt," brigida said. "i often 