delicious breeze fanned the cheeks of all. the uncle now got up and went into the hut, returning soon with a table and their dinner. "go in, heidi, and set the table here. i hope you will excuse our simple meal," he said, turning to his guest. "i shall gladly accept this delightful invitation; i am sure that dinner will taste good up here," said the guest, looking down over the sun-bathed valley. heidi was running to and fro, for it gave her great joy to be able to wait on her kind protector. soon the uncle appeared with the steaming milk, the toasted cheese, and the finely-sliced, rosy meat that had been dried in the pure air. the doctor enjoyed his dinner better than any he had ever tasted. "yes, we must send clara up here. how she could gather strength!" he said; "if she would have an appetite like mine to-day, she couldn't help getting nice and fat." at this moment a man could be seen walking up with a large sack on his shoulders. arriving on top, he threw down his load, breathing in the pure, fresh air. opening the cover, the doctor said: "this has come for you from frankfurt, heidi. come and look what is in it." heidi timidly watched the heap, and only when the gentleman opened the box with the cakes for the grandmother she said joyfully: "oh, now grandmother can eat this lovely cake." she was taking the box and the beautiful shawl on her arm and was going to race down to deliver the gifts, when the men persuaded her to stay and unpack the rest. what was her delight at finding the tobacco and all the other things. the men had been talking together, when the child suddenly planted herself in front of them and said: "these things have not given me as much pleasure as the dear doctor's coming." both men smiled. when it was near sunset, the doctor rose to start on his way down. the grandfather, carrying the box, the shawl and the sausage, and the guest holding the little girl by the hand, they wandered down the mountain-side. when they reached peter's hut, heidi was told to go inside and wait for her grandfather there. at parting she asked: "would you like to come with me up to the pasture to-morrow, doctor?" "with pleasure. good-bye, heidi," was the reply. the grandfather had deposited all the presents before the door, and it took heidi long to carry in the huge box and the sausage. the shawl she put on the grandmother's knee. brigida had silently watched the proceedings, and could not open her eyes wide enough when she saw the enormous sausage. never in her life had she seen the like, and now she really possessed it and could cut it herself. "oh grandmother, don't the cakes please you awfully? just look how soft they are!" the child exclaimed. what was her amazement when she saw the grandmother more pleased with the shawl, which would keep her warm in winter. "grandmother, clara has sent you that," heidi said. "oh, what kind good people they are to think of a poor old woman like me! i never thought i should ever own such a splendid wrap." at this moment peter came stumbling in. "the uncle is coming up behind me, and heidi must--" that was as far as he got, for his eyes had fastened on the sausage. heidi, however, had already said good-bye, for she knew what he had meant. though her uncle never went by the hut any more without stepping in, she knew it was too late to-day. "heidi, come, you must get your sleep," he called through the open door. bidding them all good-night, he took heidi by the hand and under the glistening stars they wandered home to their peaceful cottage. [illustration] xvii retaliation early the next morning the doctor climbed up the mountain in company with peter and his goats. the friendly gentleman made several attempts to start a conversation with the boy, but as answer to his questions he got nothing more than monosyllables. when they arrived on top, they found heidi already waiting, fresh and rosy as the early dawn. "are you coming?" asked peter as usual. "of course i shall, if the doctor comes with us," replied the child. the grandfather, coming out of the hut, greeted the newcomer with great respect. then he went up to peter, and hung on his shoulder the sack, which seemed to contain more than usual that day. when they had started on their way, heidi kept urging forward the goats, which were crowding about her. when at last she was walking peacefully by the doctor's side, she began to relate to him many things about the goats and all their strange pranks, and about the flowers, rocks and birds they saw. when they arrived at their destination, time seemed to have flown. peter all the time was sending many an angry glance at the unconscious doctor, who never even noticed it. heidi now took the doctor to her favorite spot. from there they could hear the peaceful-sounding bells of the grazing cattle below. the sky was deep blue, and above their heads the eagle was circling with outstretched wings. everything was luminous and bright about them, but the doctor had been silent. suddenly looking up, he beheld heidi's radiant eyes. "heidi, it is beautiful up here," he said. "but how can anybody with a heavy heart enjoy the beauty? tell me!" "oh," exclaimed heidi, "one never has a sad heart here. one only gets unhappy in frankfurt." a faint smile passed over the doctor's face. then he began: "but if somebody has brought his sorrow away with him, how would you comfort him?" "god in heaven alone can help him." "that is true, child," remarked the doctor. "but what can we do when god himself has sent us the affliction?" after meditating 