he wished he could have travelled further in the train rather than have to climb a mountain. the last part of the trip might be dangerous, for everything seemed half-wild in this country. looking round, he discovered a small wagon with a lean horse. a broad-shouldered man was just loading up large bags, which had come by the train. sebastian, approaching the man, asked some information concerning the least dangerous ascent to the alp. after a while it was settled that the man should take heidi and her trunk to the village and see to it that somebody would go up with her from there. not a word had escaped heidi, until she now said, "i can go up alone from the village. i know the road." sebastian felt relieved, and calling heidi to him, presented her with a heavy roll of bills and a letter for the grandfather. these precious things were put at the bottom of the basket, under the rolls, so that they could not possibly get lost. heidi promised to be careful of them, and was lifted up to the cart. the two old friends shook hands and parted, and sebastian, with a slightly bad conscience for having deserted the child so soon, sat down on the station to wait for a returning train. the driver was no other than the village baker, who had never seen heidi but had heard a great deal about her. he had known her parents and immediately guessed she was the child who had lived with the alm-uncle. curious to know why she came home again, he began a conversation. "are you heidi, the child who lived with the alm-uncle?" "yes." "why are you coming home again? did you get on badly?" "oh no; nobody could have got on better than i did in frankfurt." "then why are you coming back?" "because mr. sesemann let me come." "pooh! why didn't you stay?" "because i would rather be with my grandfather on the alp than anywhere on earth." "you may think differently when you get there," muttered the baker. "it is strange though, for she must know," he said to himself. they conversed no more, and heidi began to tremble with excitement when she recognized all the trees on the road and the lofty peaks of the mountains. sometimes she felt as if she could not sit still any longer, but had to jump down and run with all her might. they arrived at the village at the stroke of five. immediately a large group of women and children surrounded the cart, for the trunk and the little passenger had attracted everybody's notice. when heidi had been lifted down, she found herself held and questioned on all sides. but when they saw how frightened she was, they let her go at last. the baker had to tell of heidi's arrival with the strange gentleman, and assured all the people that heidi loved her grandfather with all her heart, let the people say what they would about him. heidi, in the meantime, was running up the path; from time to time she was obliged to stop, for her basket was heavy and she lost her breath. her one idea was: "if only grandmother still sits in her corner by her spinning wheel!--oh, if she should have died!" when the child caught sight of the hut at last, her heart began to beat. the quicker she ran, the more it beat, but at last she tremblingly opened the door. she ran into the middle of the room, unable to utter one tone, she was so out of breath. "oh god," it sounded from one corner, "our heidi used to come in like that. oh, if i just could have her again with me before i die. who has come?" "here i am! grandmother, here i am!" shouted the child, throwing herself on her knees before the old woman. she seized her hands and arms and snuggling up to her did not for joy utter one more word. the grandmother had been so surprised that she could only silently caress the child's curly hair over and over again. "yes, yes," she said at last, "this is heidi's hair, and her beloved voice. oh my god, i thank thee for this happiness." out of her blind eyes big tears of joy fell down on heidi's hand. "is it really you, heidi? have you really come again?" "yes, yes, grandmother," the child replied. "you must not cry, for i have come and will never leave you any more. now you won't have to eat hard black bread any more for a little while. look what i have brought you." heidi put one roll after another into the grandmother's lap. "ah, child, what a blessing you bring to me!" the old woman cried. "but you are my greatest blessing yourself, heidi!" then, caressing the child's hair and flushed cheeks, she entreated: "just say one more word, that i may hear your voice." while heidi was talking, peter's mother arrived, and exclaimed in her amazement: "surely, this is heidi. but how can that be?" the child rose to shake hands with brigida, who could not get over heidi's splendid frock and hat. "you can have my hat, i don't want it any more; i have my old one still," heidi said, pulling out her old crushed straw hat. heidi had remembered her grandfather's words to deta about her feather hat; that was why she had kept her old hat so carefully. brigida at last accepted the gift after a great many remonstrances. suddenly heidi took off her pretty dress and tied her old shawl about her. taking the grandmother's hand, she said: "good-bye, i must go home to grandfather now, but i shall come again tomorrow. good-night, grandmother." "oh, please come again to-morrow, heidi," implored the old woman, while she held her fast. "why did you take your pretty dress off?" asked brigida. "i'd rather go to grandfather 