a moment, heidi replied: "one must wait patiently, for god knows how to turn the saddest things to something happy in the end. god will show us what he has meant to do for us. but he will only do so if we pray to him patiently." "i hope you will always keep this beautiful belief, heidi," said the doctor. then looking up at the mighty cliffs above, he continued: "think how sad it would make us not to be able to see all these beautiful things. wouldn't that make us doubly sad? can you understand me, child?" a great pain shot through heidi's breast. she had to think of the poor grandmother. her blindness was always a great sorrow to the child, and she had been struck with it anew. seriously she replied: "oh yes, i can understand it. but then we can read grandmother's songs; they make us happy and bright again." "which songs, heidi?" "oh, those of the sun, and of the beautiful garden, and then the last verses of the long one. grandmother loves them so that i always have to read them over three times," said heidi. "i wish you would say them to me, child, for i should like to hear them," said the doctor. heidi, folding her hands, began the consoling verses. she stopped suddenly, however, for the doctor did not seem to listen. he was sitting motionless, holding his hand before his eyes. thinking that he had fallen asleep, she remained silent. but the verses had recalled his childhood days; he seemed to hear his mother and see her loving eyes, for when he was a little boy she had sung this song to him. a long time he sat there, till he discovered that heidi was watching him. "heidi, your song was lovely," he said with a more joyful voice. "we must come here another day and then you can recite it to me again." during all this time peter had been boiling with anger. now that heidi had come again to the pasture with him, she did nothing but talk to the old gentleman. it made him very cross that he was not even able to get near her. standing a little distance behind heidi's friend, he shook his fist at him, and soon afterwards both fists, finally raising them up to the sky, as heidi and the doctor remained together. when the sun stood in its zenith and peter knew that it was noon, he called over to them with all his might: "time to eat." when heidi was getting up to fetch their dinner, the doctor just asked for a glass of milk, which was all he wanted. the child also decided to make the milk her sole repast, running over to peter and informing him of their resolution. when the boy found that the whole contents of the bag was his, he hurried with his task as never in his life before. but he felt guilty on account of his former anger at the kind gentleman. to show his repentance he held his hands up flat to the sky, indicating by his action that his fists did not mean anything any more. only after that did he start with his feast. heidi and the doctor had wandered about the pasture till the gentleman had found it time to go. he wanted heidi to remain where she was, but she insisted on accompanying him. all the way down she showed him many places where the pretty mountain flowers grew, all of whose names she could tell him. when they parted at last, heidi waved to him. from time to time he turned about, and seeing the child still standing there, he had to think of his own little daughter who used to wave to him like that when he went away from home. the weather was warm and sunny that month. every morning the doctor came up to the alp, spending his day very often with the old man. many a climb they had together that took them far up, to the bare cliffs near the eagle's haunt. the uncle would show his guest all the herbs that grew on hidden places and were strengthening and healing. he could tell many strange things of the beasts that lived in holes in rock or earth, or in the high tops of trees. in the evening they would part, and the doctor would exclaim: "my dear friend, i never leave you without having learned something." but most of his days he spent with heidi. then the two would sit together on the child's favorite spot, and peter, quite subdued, behind them. heidi had to recite the verses, as she had done the first day, and entertain him with all the things she knew. at last the beautiful month of september was over. one morning the doctor came up with a sadder face than usual. the time had come for him to go back to frankfurt, and great was the uncle's sadness at that news. heidi herself could hardly realize that her loving friend, whom she had been seeing every day, was really leaving. the doctor himself was loath to go, for the alp had become as a home to him. but it was necessary for him to go, and shaking hands with the grandfather, he said good-bye, heidi going along with him a little way. hand in hand they wandered down, till the doctor stood still. then caressing heidi's curly hair, he said: "now i must go, heidi! i wish i could take you along with me to frankfurt; then i could keep you." at those words, all the rows and rows of houses and streets, miss rottenmeier and tinette rose before heidi's eyes. hesitating a little, she said: "i should like it better if you would come to see us again." "i believe that will be better. now farewell!" said the friendly gentleman. when they shook hands his eyes 