that he pulled his friend with him into his daughter's room, not leaving him time for any remonstrances. clara loved the doctor, who had always tried to cheer her up on his visits by bright and funny tales. she was sorry for the change that had come over him and would have given much to see him happy again. when he had shaken hands with her, both men pulled up their chairs to clara's bedside. mr. sesemann began to speak of their journey and how sorry he was to give it up. then he quickly began to talk of his new plan. clara's eyes had filled with tears. but she knew that her father did not like to see her cry, and besides she was sure that her papa would only forbid her this pleasure because it was absolutely necessary to do so. so she bravely fought her tears, and caressing the doctor's hand, said: "oh please, doctor, do go to heidi; then you can tell me all about her, and can describe her grandfather to me, and peter, with his goats,--i seem to know them all so well. then you can take all the things to her that i had planned to take myself. oh, please doctor, go, and then i'll be good and take as much cod-liver oil as ever you want me to." who can tell if this promise decided the doctor? at any rate he answered with a smile: "then i surely must go, clara, for you will get fat and strong, as we both want to see you. have you settled yet when i must go?" "oh, you had better go tomorrow morning, doctor," clara urged. "she is right," the father assented; "the sun is shining and you must not lose any more glorious days on the alp." the doctor had to laugh. "why don't you chide me for being here still? i shall go as quickly as i can, sesemann." clara gave many messages to him for heidi. she also told him to be sure to observe everything closely, so that he would be able to tell her all about it when he came back. the things for heidi were to be sent to him later, for miss rottenmeier, who had to pack them, was out on one of her lengthy wanderings about town. the doctor promised to comply with all clara's wishes and to start the following day. clara rang for the maid and said to her, when she arrived: "please, tinette, pack a lot of fresh, soft coffee-cake in this box." a box had been ready for this purpose many days. when the maid was leaving the room she murmured: "that's a silly bother!" sebastian, who had happened to overhear some remarks, asked the physician when he was leaving to take his regards to the little miss, as he called heidi. with a promise to deliver this message the doctor was just hastening out, when he encountered an obstacle. miss rottenmeier, who had been obliged to return from her walk on account of the strong wind, was just coming in. she wore a large cape, which the wind was blowing about her like two full sails. both had retreated politely to give way to each other. suddenly the wind seemed to carry the housekeeper straight towards the doctor, who had barely time to avoid her. this little incident, which had ruffled miss rottenmeier's temper very much, gave the doctor occasion to soothe her, as she liked to be soothed by this man, whom she respected more than anybody in the world. telling her of his intended visit, he entreated her to pack the things for heidi as only she knew how. clara had expected some resistance from miss rottenmeier about the packing of her presents. what was her surprise when this lady showed herself most obliging, and immediately, on being told, brought together all the articles! first came a heavy coat for heidi, with a hood, which clara meant her to use on visits to the grandmother in the winter. then came a thick warm shawl and a large box with coffee-cake for the grandmother. an enormous sausage for peter's mother followed, and a little sack of tobacco for the grandfather. at last a lot of mysterious little parcels and boxes were packed, things that clara had gathered together for heidi. when the tidy pack lay ready on the ground, clara's heart filled with pleasure at the thought of her little friend's delight. sebastian now entered, and putting the pack on his shoulder, carried it to the doctor's house without delay. xvi a guest on the alp the early dawn was tinging the mountains and a fresh morning-breeze rocked the old fir-trees to and fro. heidi opened her eyes, for the rustling of the wind had awakened her. these sounds always thrilled her heart, and now they drew her out of bed. rising hurriedly, she soon was neatly dressed and combed. coming down the little ladder and finding the grandfather's bed empty, she ran outside. the old man was looking up at the sky to see what the weather was going to be like that day. rosy clouds were passing overhead, but gradually the sky grew more blue and deep, and soon a golden light passed over the heights, for the sun was rising in all his glory. "oh, how lovely! good-morning, grandfather," heidi exclaimed. "are your eyes bright already?" the grandfather retorted, holding out his hand. heidi then ran over to her beloved fir-trees and danced about, while the wind was howling in the branches. after the old man had washed and milked the goats, he brought them out of the shed. when heidi saw her friends again, she caressed them tenderly, and they in their turn nearly crushed her between them. sometimes when bärli got too wild, heidi would say: "but bärli, you push me like the big turk," and that was enough to quiet the goat. soon peter arrived 