that way, or else he might not know me any more, the way you did." brigida accompanied the child outside and said mysteriously: "he would have known you in your frock; you ought to have kept it on. please be careful, child, for peter tells us that the uncle never says a word to anyone and always seems so angry." but heidi was unconcerned, and saying good-night, climbed up the path with the basket on her arm. the evening sun was shining down on the grass before her. every few minutes heidi stood still to look at the mountains behind her. suddenly she looked back and beheld such glory as she had not even seen in her most vivid dream. the rocky peaks were flaming in the brilliant light, the snow-fields glowed and rosy clouds were floating overhead. the grass was like an expanse of gold, and below her the valley swam in golden mist. the child stood still, and in her joy and transport tears ran down her cheeks. she folded her hands, and looking up to heaven, thanked the lord that he had brought her home again. she thanked him for restoring her to her beloved mountains,--in her happiness she could hardly find words to pray. only when the glow had subsided, was heidi able to follow the path again. [illustration: throwing herself in her grandfather's arms, she held him tight] she climbed so fast that she could soon discover, first the tree-tops, then the roof, finally the hut. now she could see her grandfather sitting on his bench, smoking a pipe. above the cottage the fir-trees gently swayed and rustled in the evening breeze. at last she had reached the hut, and throwing herself in her grandfather's arms, she hugged him and held him tight. she could say nothing but "grandfather! grandfather! grandfather!" in her agitation. the old man said nothing either, but his eyes were moist, and loosening heidi's arms at last, he sat her on his knee. when he had looked at her a while, he said: "so you have come home again, heidi? why? you certainly do not look very cityfied! did they send you away?" "oh no, you must not think that, grandfather. they all were so good to me; clara, mr. sesemann and grandmama. but grandfather, sometimes i felt as if i could not bear it any longer to be away from you! i thought i should choke; i could not tell any one, for that would have been ungrateful. suddenly, one morning mr. sesemann called me very early, i think it was the doctor's fault and--but i think it is probably written in this letter;" with that heidi brought the letter and the bank-roll from her basket, putting them on her grandfather's lap. "this belongs to you," he said, laying the roll beside him. having read the letter, he put it in his pocket. "do you think you can still drink milk with me, heidi?" he asked, while he stepped into the cottage. "take your money with you, you can buy a bed for it and clothes for many years." "i don't need it at all, grandfather," heidi assured him; "i have a bed and clara has given me so many dresses that i shan't need any more all my life." "take it and put it in the cupboard, for you will need it some day." heidi obeyed, and danced around the hut in her delight to see all the beloved things again. running up to the loft, she exclaimed in great disappointment: "oh grandfather, my bed is gone." "it will come again," the grandfather called up from below; "how could i know that you were coming back? get your milk now!" heidi, coming down, took her old seat. she seized her bowl and emptied it eagerly, as if it was the most wonderful thing she had ever tasted. "grandfather, our milk is the best in all the world." suddenly heidi, hearing a shrill whistle, rushed outside, as peter and all his goats came racing down. heidi greeted the boy, who stopped, rooted to the spot, staring at her. then she ran into the midst of her beloved friends, who had not forgotten her either. schw채nli and b채rli bleated for joy, and all her other favorites pressed near to her. heidi was beside herself with joy, and caressed little snowhopper and patted thistlefinch, till she felt herself pushed to and fro among them. "peter, why don't you come down and say good-night to me?" heidi called to the boy. "have you come again?" he exclaimed at last. then he took heidi's proffered hand and asked her, as if she had been always there: "are you coming up with me to-morrow?" "no, to-morrow i must go to grandmother, but perhaps the day after." peter had a hard time with his goats that day, for they would not follow him. over and over again they came back to heidi, till she entered the shed with b채rli and schw채nli and shut the door. when heidi went up to her loft to sleep, she found a fresh, fragrant bed waiting for her; and she slept better that night than she had for many, many months, for her great and burning longing had been satisfied. about ten times that night the grandfather rose from his couch to listen to heidi's quiet breathing. the window was filled up with hay, for from now on the moon was not allowed to shine on heidi any more. but heidi slept quietly, for she had seen the flaming mountains and had heard the fir-trees roar. xiv on sunday when the church bells ring heidi was standing under the swaying fir-trees, waiting for her grandfather to join her. he had promised to bring up her trunk from the village while she went in to visit the grandmother. the child was longing to see the blind woman again and to hear how she had liked the rolls. it was saturday, and the 