stool as was possible, and in that way heidi had a table before her. he commanded her to eat the large piece of bread and the slice of golden cheese. he sat down himself on a corner of the table and started his own dinner. heidi drank without stopping, for she felt exceedingly thirsty after her long journey. taking a long breath, she put down her little bowl. "how do you like the milk?" the grandfather asked her. "i never tasted better," answered heidi. "then you shall have more," and with that the grandfather filled the little bowl again. the little girl ate and drank with the greatest enjoyment. after she was through, both went out into the goat-shed. here the old man busied himself, and heidi watched him attentively while he was sweeping and putting down fresh straw for the goats to sleep on. then he went to the little shop alongside and fashioned a high chair for heidi, to the little girl's greatest amazement. "what is this?" asked the grandfather. "this is a chair for me. i am sure of it because it is so high. how quickly it was made!" said the child, full of admiration and wonder. "she knows what is what and has her eyes on the right place," the grandfather said to himself, while he walked around the hut, fastening a nail or a loose board here and there. he wandered about with his hammer and nails, repairing whatever was in need of fixing. heidi followed him at every step and watched the performance with great enjoyment and attention. at last the evening came. the old fir-trees were rustling and a mighty wind was roaring and howling through the tree-tops. those sounds thrilled heidi's heart and filled it with happiness and joy. she danced and jumped about under the trees, for those sounds made her feel as if a wonderful thing had happened to her. the grandfather stood under the door, watching her, when suddenly a shrill whistle was heard. heidi stood still and the grandfather joined her outside. down from the heights came one goat after another, with peter in their midst. uttering a cry of joy, heidi ran into the middle of the flock, greeting her old friends. when they had all reached the hut, they stopped on their way and two beautiful slender goats came out of the herd, one of them white and the other brown. they came up to the grandfather, who held out some salt in his hands to them, as he did every night. heidi tenderly caressed first one and then the other, seeming beside herself with joy. "are they ours, grandfather? do they both belong to us? are they going to the stable? are they going to stay with us?" heidi kept on asking in her excitement. the grandfather hardly could put in a "yes, yes, surely" between her numerous questions. when the goats had licked up all the salt, the old man said, "go in, heidi, and fetch your bowl and the bread." heidi obeyed and returned instantly. the grandfather milked a full bowl from the white goat, cut a piece of bread for the child, and told her to eat. "afterwards you can go to bed. if you need some shirts and other linen, you will find them in the bottom of the cupboard. aunt deta has left a bundle for you. now good-night, i have to look after the goats and lock them up for the night." "good-night, grandfather! oh, please tell me what their names are," called heidi after him. "the white one's name is schw채nli and the brown one i call b채rli," was his answer. "good-night, schw채nli! good-night, b채rli," the little girl called loudly, for they were just disappearing in the shed. heidi now sat down on the bench and took her supper. the strong wind nearly blew her from her seat, so she hurried with her meal, to be able to go inside and up to her bed. she slept in it as well as a prince on his royal couch. very soon after heidi had gone up, before it was quite dark, the old man also sought his bed. he was always up in the morning with the sun, which rose early over the mountain-side in those summer days. it was a wild, stormy night; the hut was shaking in the gusts and all the boards were creaking. the wind howled through the chimney and the old fir-trees shook so strongly that many a dry branch came crashing down. in the middle of the night the grandfather got up, saying to himself: "i am sure she is afraid." climbing up the ladder, he went up to heidi's bed. the first moment everything lay in darkness, when all of a sudden the moon came out behind the clouds and sent his brilliant light across heidi's bed. her cheeks were burning red and she lay peacefully on her round and chubby arms. she must have had a happy dream, for she was smiling in her sleep. the grandfather stood and watched her till a cloud flew over the moon and left everything in total darkness. then he went down to seek his bed again. iii on the pasture heidi was awakened early next morning by a loud whistle. opening her eyes, she saw her little bed and the hay beside her bathed in golden sunlight. for a short while she did not know where she was, but when she heard her grandfather's deep voice outside, she recollected everything. she remembered how she had come up the mountain the day before and left old ursula, who was always shivering with cold and sat near the stove all day. while heidi lived with ursula, she had always been obliged to keep in the house, where the old woman could see her. being deaf, ursula was afraid to let heidi go outdoors, and the child had often fretted in the narrow room and had 