not hear the fir-trees roar, she would wonder where she was. was the snow too heavy on the branches? was she away from home? but as soon as she heard her grandfather's voice outside, she remembered everything and would jump merrily out of bed. after four days had gone by, heidi said to her grandfather: "i must go to grandmother now, she has been alone so many days." but the grandfather shook his head and said: "you can't go yet, child. the snow is fathoms deep up there and is still falling. peter can hardly get through. a little girl like you would be snowed up and lost in no time. wait a while till it freezes and then you can walk on top of the crust." heidi was very sorry, but she was so busy now that the days flew by. every morning and afternoon she went to school, eagerly learning whatever was taught her. she hardly ever saw peter there, for he did not come very often. the mild teacher would only say from time to time: "it seems to me, peter is not here again! school would do him good, but i guess there is too much snow for him to get through." but when heidi came home towards evening, peter generally paid her a visit. after a few days the sun came out for a short time at noon, and the next morning the whole alp glistened and shone like crystal. when peter was jumping as usual into the snow that morning, he fell against something hard, and before he could stop himself he flew a little way down the mountain. when he had gained his feet at last, he stamped upon the ground with all his might. it really was frozen as hard as stone. peter could hardly believe it, and quickly running up and swallowing his milk, and putting his bread in his pocket, he announced: "i must go to school to-day!" "yes, go and learn nicely," answered his mother. then, sitting down on his sled, the boy coasted down the mountain like a shot. not being able to stop his course when he reached the village, he coasted down further and further, till he arrived in the plain, where the sled stopped of itself. it was already late for school, so the boy took his time and only arrived in the village when heidi came home for dinner. "we've got it!" announced the boy, on entering. "what, general?" asked the uncle. "the snow," peter replied. "oh, now i can go up to grandmother!" heidi rejoiced. "but peter, why didn't you come to school? you could coast down to-day," she continued reproachfully. "i went too far on my sled and then it was too late," peter replied. "i call that deserting!" said the uncle. "people who do that must have their ears pulled; do you hear?" the boy was frightened, for there was no one in the world whom he respected more than the uncle. "a general like you ought to be doubly ashamed to do so," the uncle went on. "what would you do with the goats if they did not obey you any more?" "beat them," was the reply. "if you knew of a boy that was behaving like a disobedient goat and had to get spanked, what would you say?" "serves him right." "so now you know it, goat-general: if you miss school again, when you ought to be there, you can come to me and get your due." now at last peter understood what the uncle had meant. more kindly, the old man then turned to peter and said, "come to the table now and eat with us. then you can go up with heidi, and when you bring her back at night, you can get your supper here." this unexpected change delighted peter. not losing any time, he soon disposed of his full plate. heidi, who had given the boy most of her dinner, was already putting on clara's new coat. then together they climbed up, heidi chatting all the time. but peter did not say a single word. he was preoccupied and had not even listened to heidi's tales. before they entered the hut, the boy said stubbornly: "i think i had rather go to school than get a beating from the uncle." heidi promptly confirmed him in his resolution. when they went into the room, peter's mother was alone at the table mending. the grandmother was nowhere to be seen. brigida now told heidi that the grandmother was obliged to stay in bed on those cold days, as she did not feel very strong. that was something new for heidi. quickly running to the old woman's chamber, she found her lying in a narrow bed, wrapped up in her grey shawl and thin blanket. "thank heaven!" the grandmother exclaimed when she heard her darling's step. all autumn and winter long a secret fear had been gnawing at her heart, that heidi would be sent for by the strange gentleman of whom peter had told her so much. heidi had approached the bed, asking anxiously: "are you very sick, grandmother?" "no, no, child," the old woman reassured her, "the frost has just gone into my limbs a little." "are you going to be well again as soon as the warm weather comes?" inquired heidi. "yes, yes, and if god wills, even sooner. i want to go back to my spinning-wheel and i nearly tried it to-day. i'll get up to-morrow, though," the grandmother said confidently, for she had noticed how frightened heidi was. the last speech made the child feel more happy. then, looking wonderingly at the grandmother, she said: "in frankfurt people put on a shawl when they go out. why are you putting it on in bed, grandmother?" "i put it on to keep me warm, heidi. i am glad to have it, for my blanket is very thin." "but, grandmother, your bed is slanting down 