with the whole herd, the jolly thistlefinch ahead of all the others. heidi, being soon in the mist of them, was pushed about among them. peter was anxious to say a word to the little girl, so he gave a shrill whistle, urging the goats to climb ahead. when he was near her he said reproachfully: "you really might come with me to-day!" "no, i can't, peter," said heidi. "they might come from frankfurt any time. i must be home when they come." "how often you have said that," grumbled the boy. "but i mean it," replied heidi. "do you really think i want to be away when they come from frankfurt? do you really think that, peter?" "they could come to uncle," peter growled. then the grandfather's strong voice was heard: "why doesn't the army go forward? is it the field-marshal's fault, or the fault of the troop?" peter immediately turned about and led his goats up the mountain without more ado. since heidi had come home again to her grandfather she did many things that had never occurred to her before. for instance, she would make her bed every morning, and run about the hut, tidying and dusting. with an old rag she would rub the chairs and table till they all shone, and the grandfather would exclaim: "it is always sunday with us now; heidi has not been away in vain." on this day after breakfast, when heidi began her self-imposed task, it took her longer than usual, for the weather was too glorious to stay within. over and over again a bright sunbeam would tempt the busy child outside. how could she stay indoors, when the glistening sunshine was pouring down and all the mountains seemed to glow? she had to sit down on the dry, hard ground and look down into the valley and all about her. then, suddenly remembering her little duties, she would hasten back. it was not long, though, till the roaring fir-trees tempted her again. the grandfather had been busy in his little shop, merely glancing over at the child from time to time. suddenly he heard her call: "oh grandfather, come!" he was frightened and came out quickly he saw her running down the hill crying: "they are coming, they are coming. oh, the doctor is coming first." [illustration: they are coming, oh, the doctor is coming first] when heidi at last reached her old friend, he held out his hand, which heidi immediately seized. in the full joy of her heart, she exclaimed: "how do you do, doctor? and i thank you a thousand times!" "how are you, heidi? but what are you thanking me for already?" the doctor asked, with a smile. "because you let me come home again," the child explained. the gentleman's face lit up like sunshine. he had certainly not counted on such a reception on the alp. on the contrary! not even noticing all the beauty around him, he had climbed up sadly, for he was sure that heidi probably would not know him any more. he thought that he would be far from welcome, being obliged to cause her a great disappointment. instead, he beheld heidi's bright eyes looking up at him in gratefulness and love. she was still holding his arm, when he said: "come now, heidi, and take me to your grandfather, for i want to see where you live." like a kind father he had taken her hand, but heidi stood still and looked down the mountain-side. "but where are clara and grandmama?" she asked. "child, i must tell you something now which will grieve you as much as it grieves me," replied the doctor. "i had to come alone, for clara has been very ill and could not travel. of course grandmama has not come either; but the spring will soon be here, and when the days get long and warm, they will surely visit you." heidi was perfectly amazed; she could not understand how all those things that she had pictured to herself so clearly would not happen after all. she was standing perfectly motionless, confused by the blow. it was some time before heidi remembered that, after all, she had come down to meet the doctor. looking up at her friend, she was struck by his sad and cheerless face. how changed he was since she had seen him! she did not like to see people unhappy, least of all the good, kind doctor. he must be sad because clara and grandmama had not come, and to console him she said: "oh, it won't last long till spring comes again; then they will come for sure; they'll be able to stay much longer then, and that will please clara. now we'll go to grandfather." hand in hand she climbed up with her old friend. all the way she tried to cheer him up by telling him again and again of the coming summer days. after they had reached the cottage, she called out to her grandfather quite happily: "they are not here yet, but it won't be very long before they are coming!" the grandfather warmly welcomed his guest, who did not seem at all a stranger, for had not heidi told him many things about the doctor? they all three sat down on the bench before the door, and the doctor told of the object of his visit. he whispered to the child that something was coming up the mountain very soon which would bring her more pleasure than his visit. what could it be? the uncle advised the doctor to spend the splendid days of autumn on the alp, if possible, and to take a little room in the village instead of in ragatz; then he could easily walk up every day to the hut, and from there the uncle could take him all around the mountains. this plan was accepted. the sun was in its zenith and the wind had ceased. only a soft 