home again that she jumped about among the beloved objects. here she discovered a new spring bud, and there she watched the gay little gnats and beetles that were swarming in the sun. the grandfather was busy in his little shop, and a sound of hammering and sawing could be heard. heidi had to go and see what the grandfather was making. there before the door stood a neat new chair, while the old man was busy making a second. "oh, i know what they are for," said heidi gaily. "you are making them for clara and grandmama. oh, but we need a third--or do you think that miss rottenmeier won't come, perhaps?" "i really don't know," said grandfather: "but it is safer to have a chair for her, if she should come." heidi, thoughtfully looking at the backless chairs, remarked: "grandfather, i don't think she would sit down on those." "then we must invite her to sit down on the beautiful green lounge of grass," quietly answered the old man. while heidi was still wondering what the grandfather had meant, peter arrived, whistling and calling. as usual, heidi was soon surrounded by the goats, who also seemed happy to be back on the alp. peter, angrily pushing the goats aside, marched up to heidi, thrusting a letter into her hand. "did you get a letter for me on the pasture?" heidi said, astonished. "no." "where did it come from?" "from my bag." the letter had been given to peter the previous evening; putting it in his lunch-bag, the boy had forgotten it there till he opened the bag for his dinner. heidi immediately recognized clara's handwriting, and bounding over to her grandfather, exclaimed: "a letter has come from clara. wouldn't you like me to read it to you, grandfather?" heidi immediately read to her two listeners, as follows:-- dear heidi:-- we are all packed up and shall travel in two or three days. papa is leaving, too, but not with us, for he has to go to paris first. the dear doctor visits us now every day, and as soon as he opens the door, he calls, 'away to the alp!' for he can hardly wait for us to go. if you only knew how he enjoyed being with you last fall! he came nearly every day this winter to tell us all about you and the grandfather and the mountains and the flowers he saw. he said that it was so quiet in the pure, delicious air, away from towns and streets, that everybody has to get well there. he is much better himself since his visit, and seems younger and happier. oh, how i look forward to it all! the doctor's advice is, that i shall go to ragatz first for about six weeks, then i can go to live in the village, and from there i shall come to see you every fine day. grandmama, who is coming with me, is looking forward to the trip too. but just think, miss rottenmeier does not want to go. when grandmama urges her, she always declines politely. i think sebastian must have given her such a terrible description of the high rocks and fearful abysses, that she is afraid. i think he told her that it was not safe for anybody, and that only goats could climb such dreadful heights. she used to be so eager to go to switzerland, but now neither tinette nor she wants to take the risk. i can hardly wait to see you again! good-bye, dear heidi, with much love from grandmama, i am your true friend, clara. when peter heard this, he swung his rod to right and left. furiously driving the goats before him, he bounded down the hill. heidi visited the grandmother next day, for she had to tell her the good news. sitting up in her corner, the old woman was spinning as usual. her face looked sad, for peter had already announced the near visit of heidi's friends, and she dreaded the result. after having poured out her full heart, heidi looked at the old woman. "what is it, grandmother?" said the child. "are you not glad?" "oh yes, heidi, i am glad, because you are happy." "but, grandmother, you seem so anxious. do you still think miss rottenmeier is coming?" "oh no, it is nothing. give me your hand, for i want to be sure that you are still here. i suppose it will be for the best, even if i shall not live to see the day!" "oh, but then i would not care about this coming," said the child. the grandmother had hardly slept all night for thinking of clara's coming. would they take heidi away from her, now that she was well and strong? but for the sake of the child she resolved to be brave. "heidi," she said, "please read me the song that begins with 'god will see to it.'" heidi immediately did as she was told; she knew nearly all the grandmother's favorite hymns by now and always found them quickly. "that does me good, child," the old woman said. already the expression of her face seemed happier and less troubled. "please read it a few times over, child," she entreated. thus evening came, and when heidi wandered homewards, one twinkling star after another appeared in the sky. heidi stood still every few minutes, looking up to the firmament in wonder. when she arrived home, her grandfather also was looking up to the stars, murmuring to himself: "what a wonderful month!--one day clearer than the other. the herbs will be fine and strong this year." the blossom month had passed, and june, with the long, long days, had come. quantities of flowers were blooming everywhere, filling the air with perfume. the month was nearing its end, when one morning heidi came running out of the hut, where she had already completed her duties. suddenly she screamed so loud that the grandfather 