think that that miserable man has his birthday next week. how can you celebrate your birthday when you've got the sulks, how can you accept gifts from people you won't even talk to? mr. voskuijl is going downhill rapidly. for more than ten days he's had a temperature of almost a hundred and four. the doctor said his condition is hopeless; they think the cancer has spread to his lungs. the poor man, we'd so like to help him, but only god can help him now! i've written an amusing story called "blurry the explorer," which was a big hit with my three listeners. i still have a bad cold and have passed it on to margot, as well as mother and father. if only peter doesn't get it. he insisted on a kiss, and called me his el dorado. you can't call a person that, silly boy! but he's sweet anyway! yours, anne m. frank thursday, april 27, 1944 dearest kitty, mrs. van d. was in a bad mood this morning. all she did was complain, first about her cold, not being able to get cough drops and the agony of having to blow her nose all the time. next she grumbled that the sun wasn't shining, the invasion hadn't started, we weren't allowed to look out the windows, etc., etc. we couldn't help but laugh at her, and it couldn't have been that bad, since she soon joined in. our recipe for potato kugel, modified due to lack of onions: put peeled potatoes through a food mill and add a little dry government-issue flour and salt. grease a mold or ovenproof dish with paraffin or stearin and bake for 21/2 hours. serve with rotten strawberry compote. (onions not available. nor oil for mold or dough!) at the moment i'm reading emperor charles v, written by a professor at the university of gottingen; he's spent forty years working on this book. it took me five days to read fifty pages. i can't do any more than that. since the book has 598 pages, you can figure out just how long it's going to take me. and that's not even counting the second volume. but. . . very interesting! the things a schoolgirl has to do in the course of a single day! take me, for example. first, i translated a passage on nelson's last battle from dutch into english. then, i read more about the northern war (1700-21) involving peter the great, charles xii, augustus the strong, stanislaus leczinsky, mazeppa, von gorz, bran- denburg, western pomerania, eastern pomerania and denmark, plus the usual dates. next, i wound up in brazil, where i read about bahia tobacco, the abundance of coffee, the one and a half million inhabitants of rio de janeiro, pernambuco and sao paulo and, last but not least, the amazon river. then about negroes, mulattoes, mestizos, whites, the illiteracy rate -- over 50 percent -- and malaria. since i had some time left, i glanced through a genealogical chart: john the old, william louis, ernest casimir i, henry casimir i, right up to little margriet franciska (born in 1943 in ottawa). twelve o'clock: i resumed my studies in the attic, reading about deans, priests, ministers, popes and . . . whew, it was one o'clock! at two the poor child (ho hum) was back at work. old world and new world monkeys were next. kitty, tell me quickly, how many toes does a hippopotamus have? then came the bible, noah's ark, shem, ham and japheth. after that, charles v. then, with peter, thack- eray's book about the colonel, in english. a french test, and then a comparison between the mississippi and the missouri! enough for today. adieu! yours, anne m. frank friday, april 28, 1944 dearest kitty, i've never forgotten my dream of peter schiff (see the beginning of january). even now i can still feel his cheek against mine, and that wonderful glow that made up for all the rest. once in a while i'd had the same feeling with this peter, but never so intensely. . . until last night. we were sitting on the divan, as usual, in each other's arms. suddenly the everyday anne slipped away and the second anne took her place. the second anne, who's never overconfident or amusing, but wants only to love and be gentle. i sat pressed against him and felt a wave of emotion come over me. tears rushed to my eyes; those from the left fell on his overalls, while those from the right trickled down my nose and into the air and landed beside the first. did he notice? he made no movement to show that he had. did he feel the same way i did? he hardly said a word. did he realize he had two annes at his side? my questions went unanswered. at eight-thirty i stood up and went to the window, where we always say good-bye. i was still trembling, i was still anne number two. he came over to me, and i threw my arms around his neck and kissed him on his left cheek. i was about to kiss the other cheek when my mouth met his, and we pressed our lips together. in a daze, we embraced, over and over again, never to stop, oh! peter needs tenderness. for the first time in his life he's discovered a girl; for the first time he's seen that even the biggest pests also have an inner self and a heart, and are transformed as soon as they're alone with you. for the first time in his life he's given himself and his friendship to another person. he's never had a friend before, boy or girl. now we've found each other. i, for that matter, didn't know him either, had never had someone i could confide in, and it's led to this . . . the same question keeps nagging me: "is it right?" is it right for me to yield 