peter schiff with two other boys; it was the first time he'd said hello to me in ages, and it really made me feel good. monday evening hello came over to meet father and mother. i had bought a cake and some candy, and we had tea and cookies, the works, but neither hello nor i felt like sitting stiffly on our chairs. so we went out for a walk, and he didn't deliver me to my door until ten past eight. father was furious. he said it was very wrong of me not to get home on time. i had to promise to be home by ten to eight in the future. i've been asked to hello's on saturday. wilma told me that one night when hello was at her house, she asked him, "who do you like best, ursul or anne?" he said, "it's none of your business." but as he was leaving (they hadn't talked to each other the rest of the evening), he said, "well, i like anne better, but don't tell anyone. bye!" and whoosh. . . he was out the door. in everything he says or does, i can see that hello is in love with me, and it's kind of nice for a change. margot would say that hello is eminently suitable. i think so too, but he's more than that. mother is also full of praise: "a good- looking boy. nice and polite." i'm glad he's so popular with everyone. except with my girlfriends. he thinks they're very childish, and he's right about that. jacque still teases me about him, but i'm not in love with him. not really. it's all right for me to have boys as friends. nobody minds. mother is always asking me who i'm going to marry when i grow up, but i bet she'll never guess it's peter, because i talked her out of that idea myself, without batting an eyelash. i love peter as i've never loved anyone, and i tell myself he's only going around with all those other girls to hide his feelings for me. maybe he thinks hello and i are in love with each other, which we're not. he's just a friend, or as mother puts it, a beau. yours, anne sunday, july 5, 1942 dear kitty, the graduation ceremony in the jewish theater on friday went as expected. my report card wasn't too bad. i got one d, a c- in algebra and all the rest b's, except for two b+'s and two b-'s. my parents are pleased, but they're not like other parents when it comes to grades. they never worry about report cards, good or bad. as long as i'm healthy and happy and don't talk back too much, they're satisfied. if these three things are all right, everything else will take care of itself. i'm just the opposite. i don't want to be a poor student. i was accepted to the jewish lyceum on a conditional basis. i was supposed to stay in the seventh grade at the montessori school, but when jewish children were required to go to jewish schools, mr. elte finally agreed, after a great deal of persuasion, to accept lies goslar and me. lies also passed this year, though she has to repeat her geometry exam. poor lies. it isn't easy for her to study at home; her baby sister, a spoiled little two-year-old, plays in her room all day. if gabi doesn't get her way, she starts screaming, and if lies doesn't look after her, mrs. goslar starts screaming. so lies has a hard time doing her homework, and as long as that's the case, the tutoring she's been getting won't help much. the goslar household is really a sight. mrs. goslar's parents live next door, but eat with the family. the there's a hired girl, the baby, the always absentminded and absent mr. goslar and the always nervous and irrita ie mrs. goslar, who's expecting another baby. lies, who's all thumbs, gets lost in the mayhem. my sister margot has also gotten her report card. brilliant, as usual. if we had such a thing as "cum laude," she would have passed with honors, she's so smart. father has been home a lot lately. there's nothing for him to do at the office; it must be awful to feel you're not needed. mr. kleiman has taken over opekta, and mr. kugler, gies & co., the company dealing in spices and spice substitutes that was set up in 1941. a few days ago, as we were taking a stroll around our neighborhood square, father began to talk about going into hiding. he said it would be very hard for us to live cut off from the rest of the world. i asked him why he was bringing this up now. "well, anne," he replied, "you know that for more than a year we've been bringing clothes, food and furniture to other people. we don't want our belongings to be seized by the germans. nor do we want to fall into their clutches ourselves. so we'll leave of our own accord and not wait to be hauled away." "but when, father?" he sounded so serious that i felt scared. "don't you worry. we'll take care of everything. just enjoy your carefree life while you can." that was it. oh, may these somber words not come true for as long as possible. the doorbell's ringing, hello's here, time to stop. yours, anne wednesday, july 8, 1942 dearest kitty, it seems like years since sunday morning. so much has happened it's as if the whole world had suddenly turned upside down. but as you can see, kitty, i'm still alive, and that's the main thing, father says. i'm alive all right, but don't ask where or how. you probably don't understand a word i'm saying today, so i'll begin by telling you what happened sunday afternoon. at three o'clock (hello had left but was supposed to come 