i'll smack his ugly mug so hard he'll go bouncing off the wall!" but the next moment i thought, "calm down, he's not worth getting so upset about!" at long last mr. dussel' s fury was spent, and he left the room with an expression of triumph mixed with wrath, his coat pockets bulging with food. i went running over to father and recounted the entire story, or at least those parts he hadn't been able to follow himself. rim decided to talk to dussel that very same evening, and they spoke for more than half an hour. they first discussed whether anne should be allowed to use the table, yes or no. father said that he and dussel had dealt with the subject once before, at which time he'd professed to agree with dussel because he didn't want to contradict the elder in front of the younger, but that, even then, he hadn't thought it was fair. dussel felt i had no right to talk as if he were an intruder laying claim to everything in sight. but father protested strongly, since he himself had heard me say nothing of the kind. and so the conversation went back and forth, with father defending my "selfishness" and my "busywork" and dussel grumbling the whole time. dussel finally had to give in, and i was granted the opportunity to work without interruption two afternoons a week. dussel looked very sullen, didn't speak to me for two days and made sure he occupied the table from five to five-thirty -- all very childish, of course. anyone who's so petty and pedantic at the age of fifty-four was born that way and is never going to change. friday, july 16, 1943 dearest kitty, there's been another break-in, but this time a real one! peter went down to the warehouse this morning at seven, as usual, and noticed at once that both the warehouse door and the street door were open. he immediately reported this to pim, who went to the private office, tuned the radio to a german station and locked the door. then they both went back upstairs. in such cases our orders are not to wash ourselves or run any water, to be quiet, to be dressed by eight and not to go to the bathroom," and as usual we followed these to the letter. we were all glad we'd slept so well and hadn't heard anything. for a while we were indignant because no one from the office came upstairs the entire morning; mr. kleiman left us on tenterhooks until eleven-thirty. he told that the burglars had forced the outside door and the warehouse door with a crowbar, but when they didn't find anything worth stealing, they tried their luck on the next floor. they stole two cashboxes containing 40 guilders, blank checkbooks and, worst of all, coupons for 330 pounds of sugar, our entire allotment. it won't be easy to wangle new ones. mr. kugler thinks this burglar belongs to the same gang as the one who made an unsuccessful attempt six weeks ago to open all three doors (the warehouse door and the two outside doors). the burglary caused another stir, but the annex seems to thrive on excitement. naturally, we were glad the cash register and the typewriters had been safely tucked away in our clothes closet. yours, anne ps. landing in sicily. another step closer to the . . . ! monday, july 19,1943 dearest kitty, north amsterdam was very heavily bombed on sunday. there was apparently a great deal of destruction. entire streets are in ruins, and it will take a while for them to dig out all the bodies. so far there have been two hundred dead and countless wounded; the hospitals are bursting at the seams. we've been told of children searching forlornly in the smoldering ruins for their dead parents. it still makes me shiver to think of the dull, distant drone that signified the approaching destruction. friday, july 23, 1943 bep is currently able to get hold of notebooks, especially journals and ledgers, useful for my bookkeeping sister! other kinds are for sale as well, but don't ask what they're like or how long they'll last. at the moment \ they're all labeled "no coupons needed!" like everything else you can purchase without ration stamps, they're i totally worthless. they consist of twelve sheets of gray i paper with narrow lines that slant across the page. margot is thinking about taking a course in calligraphy; i've advised her to go ahead and do it. mother won't let me because of my eyes, but i think that's silly. whether i do i that or something else, it all comes down to the same i thing. since you've never been through a war, kitty, and since you know very little about life in hiding, in spite of my letters, let me tell you, just for fun, what we each want to do first when we're able to go outside again. margot and mr. van daan wish, above all else, to have a hot bath, filled to the brim, which they can lie in for more than half an hour. mrs. van daan would like a cake, dussel can think of nothing but seeing his charlotte, and mother is dying for a cup of real coffee. father would like to visit mr. voskuijl, peter would go downtown, and as for me, i'd be so overjoyed i wouldn't know where to begin. most of all i long to have a home of our own, to be able to move around freely and have someone help me with my homework again, at last. in other words, to go back to school! bep has offered to get us some fruit, at so-called bargain prices: grapes 2.50 guilders a pound, gooseberries 70 cents a pound, one peach 50 cents, melons 75 cents a pound. no wonder the papers write every evening in big, fat letters: "keep prices down!" 