you need to remember: laugh at everything and forget everybody else! it sounds egotistical, but it's actually the only cure for those suffering from self-pity. mr. kugler's supposed to spend four weeks in alkmaar on a work detail. he's trying to get out of it with a doctor's certificate and a letter from opekta. mr. kleiman's hoping his stomach will be operated on soon. starting at eleven last night, all private phones were cut off. yours, anne m. frank friday, june 23, 1944 dearest kitty, nothing special going on here. the british have begun their all-out attack on cherbourg. according to pim and mr. van oaan, we're sure to be liberated before october 10. the russians are taking part in the cam- paign; yesterday they started their offensive near vitebsk, exactly three years to the day that the germans invaded russia. bep's spirits have sunk lower than ever. we're nearly out of potatoes; from now on, we're going to count them out for each person, then everyone can do what they want with them. starting monday, miep's taking a week of vacation. mr. kleiman's doctors haven't found anything on the x rays. he's torn between having an operation and letting matters take their course. yours, anne m. frank tuesday, june 27, 1944 my dearest kitty, the mood has changed, everything's going enormously well. cherbourg, vitebsk and zhlobin fell today. they're sure to have captured lots of men and equipment. five german generals were killed near cherbourg and two taken captive. now that they've got a harbor, the british can bring whatever they want on shore. the whole cotentin peninsula has been captured just three weeks after the invasion! what a feat! in the three weeks since d day there hasn't been a day without rain and storms, neither here nor in france, but this bad luck hasn't kept the british and the americans from displaying their might. and how! of course, the germans have launched their wonder weapon, but a little firecracker like that won't hardly make a dent, except maybe minor damage in england and screaming headlines in the kraut newspapers. anyway, when they realize in "krautland" that the bolsheviks really are getting closer, they'll be shaking in their boots. all german women who aren't working for the military are being evacuated, together with their children, from the coastal regions to the provinces of groningen, friesland and gelderland. mussert* [* the leader of the dutch national socialist (nazi) party] has announced that if the invasion reaches holland, he'll enlist. is that fat pig planning to fight? he could have done that in russia long before now. finland turned down a peace offer some time ago, and now the negotiations have been broken off again. those numbskulls, they'll be sorry! how far do you think we'll be on july 27? yours, anne m. frank friday, june 30, 1944 dearest kitty, bad weather from one at a stretch to the thirty june* [anne's english.] don't i say that well? oh yes, i already know a little english; just to prove it i'm reading an ideal husband with the help of a dictionary! war's going wonderfully: bobruysk, mogilev and orsha have fallen, lots of prisoners. everything's all right here. spirits are improving, our superoptimists are triumphant, the van daans are doing disappearing acts with the sugar, bep' s changed her hair, and miep has a week off. that's the latest news! i've been having really ghastly root-canal work done on one of my front teeth. it's been terribly painful. it was so bad dussel thought i was going to faint, and i nearly did. mrs. van d. promptly got a toothache as well! yours, anne m. frank p.s. we've heard from basel that bernd* [cousin bernhard (buddy) elias]. played the part of the innkeeper in minna von barnhelm. he has "artistic leanings," says mother. thursday, july 6, 1944 dearest kitty, my blood runs cold when peter talks about becoming a criminal or a speculator; of course, he's joking, but i still have the feeling he's afraid of his own weakness. margot and peter are always saying to me, "if i had your spunk and your strength, if i had your drive and unflagging energy, could. . . is it really such an admirable trait not to let myself be influenced by others? am i right in following my own conscience? to be honest, i can't imagine how anyone could say "i'm weak" and then stay that way. if you know that about yourself, why not fight it, why not develop your character? their answer has always been: "because it's much easier not to!" this reply leaves me feeling rather discouraged. easy? does that mean a life of deceit and laziness is easy too? oh no, that can't be true. it can't be true that people are so readily tempted by ease. . . and money. i've given a lot of thought to what my answer should be, to how i should get peter to believe in himself and, most of all, to change himself for the better. i don't know whether i'm on the right track. i've often imagined how nice it would be if someone were to confide everything to me. but now that it's reached that point, i realize how difficult it is to put yourself in someope else's shoes and find the right answer. especially since "easy" and "money" are new and com- pletely alien concepts to me. peter's beginning to lean on me and i don't want that, not under any circumstances. it's hard enough standing on your own two feet, but when you also have to remain true to your character and soul, it's harder still. i've been drifting around at sea, have spent days searching for an effective antidote to that terrible word "easy." how can i make it clear to him that, while it may seem easy and wonderful, it will drag him down to the depths, to a place where he'll no longer find 