so soon, for me to be so passionate, to be filled with as much passion and desire as peter? can i, a girl, allow myself to go that far? there's only one possible answer: "i'm longing so much. . . and have for such a long time. i'm so lonely and now i've found comfort!" in the mornings we act normally, in the afternoons too, except now and then. but in the evenings the suppressed longing of the entire day, the happiness and the bliss of all the times before come rushing to the surface, and all we can think about is each other. every night, after our last kiss, i feel like running away and never looking him in the eyes again. away, far away into the darkness and alone! and what awaits me at the bottom of those fourteen stairs? bright lights, questions and laughter. i have to act normally and hope they don't notice anything. my heart is still too tender to be able to recover so quickly from a shock like the one i had last night. the gentle anne makes infrequent appearances, and she's not about to let herself be shoved out the door so soon after she's arrived. peter's reached a part of me that no one has ever reached before, except in my dream! he's taken hold of me and turned me inside out. doesn't everyone need a little quiet time to put themselves to rights again? oh, peter, what have you done to me? what do you want from me? where will this lead? oh, now i understand bep. now, now that i'm going through it myself, i understand her doubts; if i were older and he wanted to marry me, what would my answer be? anne, be honest! you wouldn't be able to marry him. but it's so hard to let go. peter still has too little character, too little willpower, too little courage and strength. he's still a child, emotionally no older than i am; all he wants is happiness and peace of mind. am i really only fourteen? am i really just a silly schoolgirl? am i really so inexperienced in everything? i have more experience than most; i've experienced something almost no one my age ever has. i'm afraid of myself, afraid my longing is making me yield too soon. how can it ever go right with other boys later on? oh, it's so hard, the eternal struggle between heart and mind. there's a time and a place for both, but how can i be sure that i've chosen the right time? yours, anne m. frank tuesday, may 2, 1944 dearest kitty, saturday night i asked peter whether he thinks i should tell father about us. after we'd discussed it, he said he thought i should. i was glad; it shows he's sensible, and sensitive. as soon as i came downstairs, i went with father to get some water. while we were on the stairs, i said, "father, i'm sure you've gathered that when peter and i are together, we don't exactly sit at opposite ends of the room. do you think that's wrong?" father paused before answering: "no, i don't think it's wrong. but anne, when you're living so close together, as we do, you have to be careful." he said some other words to that effect, and then we went upstairs. sunday morning he called me to him and said, "anne, i've been thinking about what you said." (oh, oh, i knew what was coming!) "here in the annex it's not such a good idea. i thought you were just friends. is peter in love with you?" "of course not," i answered. "well, you know i understand both of you. but you must be the one to show restraint; don't go upstairs so often, don't encourage him more than you can help. in matters like these, it's always the man who takes the active role, and it's up to the woman to set the limits. outside, where you're free, things are quite different. you see other boys and girls, you can go outdoors, take part in sports and all kinds of activities. but here, if you're together too much and want to get away, you can't. you see each other every hour of the day-all the time, in fact. be careful, anne, and don't take it too seriously! "i don't, father, but peter's a decent boy, a nice boy." "yes, but he doesn't have much strength of character. he can easily be influenced to do good, but also to do bad. i hope for his sake that he stays good, because he's basically a good person." we talked some more and agreed that father would speak to him too. sunday afternoon when we were in the front attic, peter asked, "have you talked to your father yet, anne?" "yes," i replied, "i'll tell you all about it. he doesn't think it's wrong, but he says that here, where we're in such close quarters, it could lead to conflicts." "we've already agreed not to quarrel, and i plan to keep my promise." "me too, peter. but father didn't think we were serious, he thought we were just friends. do you think we still can be?" "yes, i do. how about you?" "me too. i also told father that i trust you. i do trust you, peter, just as much as i do father. and i think you're worthy of my trust. you are, aren't you?" "i hope so." (he was very shy, and blushing.) "i believe in you, peter," i continued. "i believe you have a good character and that you'll get ahead in this world." after that we talked about other things. later i said, "if we ever get out of here, i know you won't give me another thought." he got all fired up. "that's not true, anne. oh no, i won't let you even think that about me!" just then somebody called us. father 