seemed so far away, so unreal, like a fairy tale. if the war isn't over by september, i won't go back to school, since i don't want to be two years behind. peter filled my days, nothing but peter, dreams and thoughts until saturday night, when i felt so utterly miserable; oh, it was awful. i held back my tears when i was with peter, laughed uproariously with the van daans as we drank lemon punch and was cheerful and excited, but the minute i was alone i knew i was going to cry my eyes out. i slid to the floor in my nightgown and began by saying my prayers, very fervently. then i drew my knees to my chest, lay my head on my arms and cried, all huddled up on the bare floor. a loud sob brought me back down to earth, and i choked back my tears, since i didn't want anyone next door to hear me. then i tried to pull myself together, saying over and over, "i must, i must, i must. . . " stiff from sitting in such an unusual position, i fell back against the side of the bed and kept up my struggle until just before ten-thirty, when i climbed back into bed. it was over! and now it's really over. i finally realized that i must do my schoolwork to keep from being ignorant, to get on in life, to become a journalist, because that's what i want! i know i can write. a few of my stories are good, my descriptions of the secret annex are humorous, much of my diary is vivid and alive, but. . . it remains to be seen whether i really have talent. "eva's dream" is my best fairy tale, and the odd thing is that i don't have the faintest idea where it came from. parts of "cady's life" are also good, but as a whole it's nothing special. i'm my best and harshest critic. i know what's good and what isn't. unless you write yourself, you can't know how wonderful it is; i always used to bemoan the fact that i couldn't draw, but now i'm overjoyed that at least i can write. and if i don't have the talent to write books or newspaper articles, i can always write for myself. but i want to achieve more than that. i can't imagine having to live like mother, mrs. van daan and all the women who go about their work and are then forgotten. i need to have something besides a husband and children to devote myself to! i don't want to have lived in vain like most people. i want to be useful or bring enjoyment to all people, even those i've never met. i want to go on living even after my death! and that's why i'm so grateful to god for having given me this gift, which i can use to develop myself and to express all that's inside me! when i write i can shake off all my cares. my sor- row disappears, my spirits are revived! but, and that's a big question, will i ever be able to write something great, will i ever become a journalist or a writer? i hope so, oh, i hope so very much, because writing allows me to record everything, all my thoughts, ideals and fantasies. i haven't worked on "cady's life" for ages. in my mind i've worked out exactly what happens next, but the story doesn't seem to be coming along very well. i might never finish it, and it'll wind up in the wastepaper basket or the stove. that's a horrible thought, but then i say to myself, "at the age of fourteen and with so little experience, you can't write about philosophy." so onward and upward, with renewed spirits. it'll all work out, because i'm determined to write! yours, anne m. frank thursday, april 6, 1944 dearest kitty, you asked me what my hobbies and interests are and i'd like to answer, but i'd better warn you, i have lots of them, so don't be surprised. first of all: writing, but i don't really think of that as a hobby. number two: genealogical charts. i'm looking in every newspaper, book and document i can find for the family trees of the french, german, spanish, english, austrian, russian, norwegian and dutch royal famthes. i've made great progress with many of them, because for ! a long time i've been taking notes while reading biogra- i, phies or history books. i even copy out many of the passages on history. so my third hobby is history, and father's already bought me numerous books. i can hardly wait for the day when i'll be able to go to the public library and ferret out iii the information i need. number four is greek and roman mythology. i have various books on this subject too. i can name the nine muses and the seven loves of zeus. i have the wives of hercules, etc., etc., down pat. my other hobbies are movie stars and family photographs. i'm crazy about reading and books. i adore the history of the arts, especially when it concerns writers, poets and painters; musicians may come later. i loathe algebra, geometry and arithmetic. i enjoy all my other school subjects, but history's my favorite! yours, anne m. frank tuesday, april 11, 1944 my dearest kitty, my head's in a whirl, i really don't know where to begin. thursday (the last time i wrote you) everything was as usual. friday afternoon (good friday) we played monopoly; saturday afternoon too. the days passed very quickly. around two o'clock on saturday, heavy firing ii began-machine guns, according to the men. for the rest, everything was quiet. sunday afternoon peter came to see me at four-thirty, at my invitation. at five- fifteen we went to the ii front attic, where we stayed until six. there was a beautil ful mozart 