female ones have different names." "i know that." "the female one is a vagina, that i know, but i don't know what it's called in males." "oh well," i said. "how are we supposed to know these words? most of the time you just come across them by accident." "why wait? i'll ask my parents. they know more than i do and they've had more experience." we were already on the stairs, so nothing more was said. yes, it really did happen. i'd never have talked to a girl about this in such a normal tone of voice. i'm also certain that this isn't what mother meant when she warned me about boys. all the same, i wasn't exactly my usual self for the rest of the day. when i thought back to our talk, it struck me as odd. but i've learned at least one thing: there are young people, even those of the opposite sex, who can discuss these things naturally, without cracking jokes. is peter really going to ask his parents a lot of questions? is he really the way he seemed yesterday? oh, what do i know?!!! yours, anne friday, january 28, 1944 dearest kitty, in recent weeks i've developed a great liking for family trees and the genealogical tables of royal families. i've come to the conclusion that once you begin your search, you have to keep digging deeper and deeper into the past, which leads you to even more interesting discoveries. although i'm extremely diligent when it comes to my schoolwork and can pretty much follow the bbc home service on the radio, i still spend many of my sundays sorting out and looking over my movie-star collection, which has grown to a very respectable size. mr. kugler makes me happy every monday by bringing me a copy of cinema & theater magazine. the less worldly members of our household often refer to this small indulgence as a waste of money, yet they never fail to be surprised at how accurately i can list the actors in any given movie, even after a year. bep, who often goes to the movies with her boyfriend on her day off, tells me on saturday the name of the show they're going to see, and i then proceed to rattle off the names of the leading actors and actresses and the reviews. moms recently remarked ; that i wouldn't need to go to the movies later on, because ! i know all the plots, the names of the stars and the reviews by heart. whenever i come sailing in with a new hairstyle, i i can read the disapproval on their faces, and i can be sure someone will ask which movie star i'm trying to imitate. my reply, that it's my own invention, is greeted with ~ skepticism. as for the hairdo, it doesn't hold its set for ~ more than half an hour. by that time i'm so sick and tired i of their remarks that i race to the bathroom and restore my hair to its normal mass of curls. yours, anne friday, january 28, 1944 dearest kitty, this morning i was wondering whether you ever felt like a cow, having to chew my stale news over and over again until you're so fed up with the monotonous fare that you yawn and secretly wish anne would dig up something new. sorry, i know you find it dull as ditchwater, but imagine how sick and tired i am of hearing the same old stuff. if the talk at mealtime isn't about politics or good food, then mother or mrs. van d. trot out stories about their childhood that we've heard a thousand times before, or dussel goes on and on about beautiful racehorses, his charlotte's extensive wardrobe, leaky rowboats, boys who can swim at the age of four, aching muscles and frightened patients. it all boils down to this: whenever one of the eight of us opens his mouth, the other seven can finish the story for him. we know the punch line of every joke before it gets told, so that whoever's telling it is left to laugh alone. the various milkmen, grocers and butchers of the two former housewives have been praised to the skies or run into the ground so many times that in our imaginations they've grown as old as methuselah; there's absolutely no chance of anything new or fresh being brought up for discussion in the annex. still, all this might be bearable if only the grown-ups weren't in the habit of repeating the stories we hear from mr. kleiman, jan or miep, each time embellishing them with a few details of their own, so that i often have to pinch my arm under the table to keep myself from setting the enthusiastic storyteller on the right track. little children, such as anne, must never, ever correct their elders, no matter how many blunders they make or how often they let their imaginations run away with them. jan and mr. kleiman love talking about people who have gone underground or into hiding; they know we're eager to hear about others in our situation and that we truly sympathize with the sorrow of those who've been arrested as well as the joy of prisoners who've been freed. going underground or into hiding has become as routine as the proverbial pipe and slippers that used to await the man of the house after a long day at work. there are many resistance groups, such as free netherlands, that forge identity cards, provide financial support to those in hiding, organize hiding places and find work for young christians who go underground. it's amazing how much these generous and unselfish people do, risking their own lives to help and save others. the best example of this is our own helpers, who have managed to pull us through so far and will hopefully bring us safely to shore, because otherwise they'll find themselves sharing 