why he didn't flirt with me, but now i'm glad. he also mentioned how he often used to retreat to his room. i said that my noise and exuberance and his silence were two sides of the same coin, and that i also liked peace and quiet but don't have anything for myself alone, except my diary, and that everyone would rather see the back of me, starting with mr. dussel, and that i don't always want to sit with my parents. we discussed how glad he is that my parents have children and how glad i am that he's here. how i now understand his need to withdraw and his relationship to his parents, and how much i'd like to help him when they argue. "but you're always a help to me!" he said. "how?" i asked, greatly surprised. "by being cheerful." that was the nicest thing he said all evening. he also told me that he didn't mind my coming to his room the way he used to; in fact, he liked it. i also told him that all of father's and mother's pet names were meaningless, that a kiss here and there didn't automatically lead to trust. we also talked about doing things your own way, the diary, loneliness, the difference between everyone's inner and outer selves, my mask, etc. it was wonderful. he must have come to love me as a friend, and, for the time being, that's enough. i'm so grateful and happy, i can't find the words. i must apolo- gize, kitty, since my style is not up to my usual standard today. i've just written whatever came into my head! i have the feeling that peter and i share a secret. whenever he looks at me with those eyes, with that smile and that wink, it's as if a light goes on inside me. i hope things will stay like this and that we'll have many, many more happy hours together. your grateful and happy anne monday, march 20, 1944 dearest kitty, this morning peter asked me if i'd come again one evening. he swore i wouldn't be disturbing him, and said that where there was room for one, there was room for two. i said i couldn't see him every evening, since my parents didn't think it was a good idea, but he thought i shouldn't let that bother me. so i told him i'd like to come some saturday evening and also asked him if he'd let me know when you could see the moon. "sure," he said, "maybe we can go downstairs and look at the moon from there." i agreed; i'm not really so scared of burglars. in the meantime, a shadow has fallen on my happiness. for a long time i've had the feeling that margot likes peter. just how much i don't know, but the whole situation is very unpleasant. now every time i go see peter i'm hurting her, without meaning to. the funny thing is that she hardly lets it show. i know i'd be insanely jealous, but margot just says i shouldn't feel sorry for her. "i think it's so awful that you've become the odd one out," i added. "i'm used to that," she replied, somewhat bitterly. i don't dare tell peter. maybe later on, but he and i need to discuss so many other things first. mother slapped me last night, which i deserved. i mustn't carry my indifference and contempt for her too far. in spite of everything, i should try once again to be friendly and keep my remarks to myself! even pim isn't as nice as he used to be. he's been trying not to treat me like a child, but now he's much too cold. we'll just have to see what comes of it! he's warned me that if i don't do my algebra, i won't get any tutoring after the war. i could simply wait and see what happens, but i'd like to start again, provided i get a new book. that's enough for now. i do nothing but gaze at peter, and i'm filled to overflowing! yours, anne m. frank evidence of margot's goodness. i received this today, march 20, 1944: anne, yesterday when i said i wasn't jeal- ous of you, i wasn't being entirely honest. the situation is this: i'm not jealous of either you or peter. i'm just sorry i haven't found anyone willi whom to share my thoughts and feelings, and i'm not likely to in the near future. but that's why i wish, from the bottom of my heart, that you will both be able to place your trust in each other. you're already missing out on so much here, things other people take for granted. on the other hand, i'm certain i'd never have gotten as far with peter, because i think i'd need to feel very close to a person before i could share my thoughts. i'd want to have the feeling that he understood me through and through, even if i didn't say much. for this reason it would have to be someone i felt was intellectually superior to me, and that isn't the case with peter. but i can imagine your feeling close to him. so there's no need for you to reproach yourself because you think you' te taking something i was entitled to; nothing could be further from the truth. you and peter have everything to gain by your friendship. my answer: dearest margot, your letter was extremely kind, but i still don't feel completely happy about the situation, and i don't think i ever will. at the moment, peter and i don't trust each other as much as you seem to think. it's just that when you're standing beside an open window at twthght, you can say more to each other than in bright sunshine. it's also easier to whisper your feelings than to shout them from the rooftops. i think you've begun to 