and his tie is also showing signs of wear and tear. mama's corset snapped today and is beyond repair, while margot is wearing a bra that's two sizes too small, mother and margot have shared the same three undershorts the entire winter, and mine are so small they don't even cover my stomach. these are all things that can be overcome, but i sometimes wonder: how can we, whose every possession, from my underpants to father's shaving brush, is so old and worn, ever hope to regain the position we had before the war? sunday, may 2, 1943 the attitude of the annex residents toward the war mr. van daan. in the opinion of us all, this revered gentleman has great insight into politics. nevertheless, he predicts we'll have to stay here until the end of '43. that's a very long time, and yet it's possible to hold out until then. but who can assure us that this war, which has caused nothing but pain and sorrow, will then be over? and that nothing will have happened to us and our helpers long before that time? no one! that's why each and every day is filled with tension. expectation and hope generate tension, as does fear -- for example, when we hear a noise inside or outside the house, when the guns go off or when we read new "proclamations" in the paper, since we're afraid our helpers might be forced to go into hiding themselves sometime. these days everyone is talking about having to hide. we don't know how many people are actually in hiding; of course, the number is relatively small compared to the general population, but later on we'll no doubt be astonished at how many good people in holland were willing to take jews and christians, with or without money, into their homes. there're also an unbelievable number of people with false identity papers. mrs. van daan. when this beautiful damsel (by her own account) heard that it was getting easier these days to obtain false ids, she immediately proposed that we each have one made. as if there were nothing to it, as if father and mr. van daan were made of money. mrs. van daan is always sating the most ridiculous things, and her putti is often exasperated. but that's not surprising, because one day kerli announces, "when this is allover, i'm going to have myself baptized"; and the next, "as long as i can remember, i've wanted to go to jerusalem. i only feel at home with other jews!" pim is a big optimist, but he always has his reasons. mr. dussel makes up everything as he goes along, and anyone wishing to contradict his majesty had better think twice. in alfred dussel's home his word is law, but that doesn't suit anne frank in the least. what the other members of the annex family think about the war doesn't matter. when it comes to politics, these four are the only ones who count. actually, only two of them do, but madame van daan and dussel include themselves as well. tuesday, may 18, 1943 dearest kit, i recently witnessed a fierce dogfight between german and english pilots. unfortunately, a couple of allied airmen had to jump out of their burning plane. our milkman, who lives in halfweg, saw four canadians sitting along the side of the road, and one of them spoke fluent dutch. he asked the milkman if he had a light for his cigarette, and then told him the crew had consisted of six men. the pilot had been burned to death, and the fifth crew member had hidden himself somewhere. the german security police came to pick up the four remaining men, none of whom were injured. after parachuting out of a flaming plane, how can anyone have such presence of mind? although it's undeniably hot, we have to light a fire every other day to burn our vegetable peelings and garbage. we can't throw anything into trash cans, because the warehouse employees might see it. one small act of carelessness and we're done for! all college students are being asked to sign an official statement to the effect that they "sympathize with the germans and approve of the new order." eighty percent have decided to obey the dictates of their conscience, but the penalty will be severe. any student refusing to sign will be sent to a german labor camp. what's to become of the youth of our country if they've all got to do hard labor in germany? last night the guns were making so much noise that mother shut the window; i was in pim's bed. suddenly, right above our heads, we heard mrs. van d. leap up, as if she'd been bitten by mouschi. this was followed by a loud boom, which sounded as if a firebomb had landed beside my bed. "lights! lights!" i screamed. pim switched on the lamp. i expected the room to burst into flames any minute. nothing happened. we all rushed upstairs to see what was going on. mr. and mrs. van d. had seen a red glow through the open window, and he thought there was a fire nearby, while she was certain our house was ablaze. mrs. van d. was already standing beside her bed with her knees knocking when the boom came. dussel stayed upstairs to smoke a cigarette, and we crawled back into bed. less than fifteen minutes later the shooting started again. mrs. van d. sprang out of bed and went downstairs to dussel' s room to seek the comfort she was unable to find with her spouse. dussel welcomed her with the words "come into my bed, my child!" we burst into peals of laughter, and the roar of the guns bothered us no more; our fears had all been swept away. yours, anne sunday, june 13, 1943 dearest kitty, the poem father composed for my birthday is too nice to keep to myself. since 