right way. he read the poem to the class, adding his own comments, and to several other classes as well. since then i've been allowed to talk and haven't been assigned any extra homework. on the contrary, keesing's always i making jokes these days. yours, anne wednesday, june 24, 1942 dearest kitty, it's sweltering. everyone is huffing and puffing, and in this heat i have to walk everywhere. only now do i realize how pleasant a streetcar is, but we jews are no longer allowed to make use of this luxury; our own two feet are good enough for us. yesterday at lunchtime i had an appointment with the dentist on jan luykenstraat. it's a long way from our school on stadstimmertuinen. that afternoon i nearly fell asleep at my desk. fortunately, people automatically offer you something to drink. the dental assistant is really kind. the only mode of transportation left to us is the ferry. the ferryman at josef israelkade took us across when we asked him to. it's not the fault of the dutch that we jews are having such a bad time. i wish i didn't have to go to school. my bike was stolen during easter vacation, and father gave mother's bike to some christian friends for safekeeping. thank goodness summer vacation is almost here; one more week and our torment will be over. something unexpected happened yesterday morning. as i was passing the bicycle racks, i heard my name being called. i turned around and there was the nice boy i'd met the evening before at my friend wilma's. he's wilma's second cousin. i used to think wilma was nice, which she is, but all she ever talks about is boys, and that gets to be a bore. he came toward me, somewhat shyly, and introduced himself as hello silberberg. i was a little surprised and wasn't sure what he wanted, but it didn't take me long to find out. he asked if i would allow him to accompany me to school. "as long as you're headed that way, i'll go with you," i said. and so we walked together. hello is sixteen and good at telling all kinds of funny stories. he was waiting for me again this morning, and i expect he will be from now on. anne wednesday, july 1, 1942 dearest kitty, until today i honestly couldn't find the time to write you. i was with friends all day thursday, we had company on friday, and that's how it went until today. hello and i have gotten to know each other very well this past week, and he's told me a lot about his life. he comes from gelsenkirchen and is living with his grandparents. his parents are in belgium, but there's no way he can get there. hello used to have a girlfriend named ursula. i know her too. she's perfectly sweet and perfectly boring. ever since he met me, hello has realized that he's been falling asleep at ursul's side. so i'm kind of a pep tonic. you never know what you're good for! jacque spent saturday night here. sunday afternoon she was at hanneli's, and i was bored stiff. hello was supposed to come over that evening, but he called around six. i answered the phone, and he said, "this is helmuth silberberg. may i please speak to anne?" "oh, hello. this is anne." "oh, hi, anne. how are you?" " "fine, thanks." "i just wanted to say i'm sorry but i can't come tonight, though i would like to have a word with you. is it all right if i come by and pick you up in about ten minutes "yes, that's fine. bye-bye!" "okay, i'll be right over. bye-bye!" i hung up, quickly changed my clothes and fixed my hair. i was so nervous i leaned out the window to watch for him. he finally showed up. miracle of miracles, i didn't rush down the stairs, but waited quietly until he rang the bell. i went down to open the door, and he got right to the point. "anne, my grandmother thinks you're too young for me to be seeing you on a regular basis. she says i should be going to the lowenbachs', but you probably know that i'm not going out with ursul anymore." "no, i didn't know. what happened? did you two have a fight?" "no, nothing like that. i told ursul that we weren't suited to each other and so it was better for us not to go together anymore, but that she was welcome at my house and i hoped i would be welcome at hers. actually, i thought ursul was hanging around with another boy, and i treated her as if she were. but that wasn't true. and then my uncle said i should apologize to her, but of course i didn't feel like it, and that's why i broke up with her. but that was just one of the reasons. "now my grandmother wants me to see ursul and not you, but i don't agree and i'm not going to. sometimes old people have really old-fashioned ideas, but that doesn't mean i have to go along with them. i need my grandparents, but in a certain sense they need me too. from now on i'll be free on wednesday evenings. you see, my grandparents made me sign up for a wood-carving class, but actually i go to a club organized by the zionists. my grandparents don't want me to go, because they're anti-zionists. i'm not a fanatic zionist, but it interests me. anyway, it's been such a mess lately that i'm planning to quit. so next wednesday will be my last meeting. that means i can see you wednesday evening, saturday afternoon, saturday evening, sunday afternoon and maybe even more." "but if your grandparents don't want you to, you? shouldn't go behind their backs." "all's fair in love and war." just then we passed blankevoort's bookstore and there was 