twenty miles from the coast was warned to prepare for bombardments. where possible, the british will drop pamphlets an hour ahead of time. according to the german news, british paratroopers have landed on the coast of france. "british landing craft are engaged in combat with german naval units," according to the bbc. conclusion reached by the annex while breakfasting at nine: this is a trial landing, like the one two years ago in dieppe. bbc broadcast in german, dutch, french and other languages at ten: the invasion has begun! so this is the "real" invasion. bbc broadcast in german at eleven: speech by supreme commander general dwight eisenhower. bbc broadcast in english: "this is 0 day." general eisenhower said to the french people: "stiff fighting will come now, but after this the victory. the year 1944 is the year of complete victory. good luck!" bbc broadcast in english at one: 11,000 planes are shuttling back and forth or standing by to land troops and bomb behind enemy lines; 4,000 landing craft and small boats are continually arriving in the area between cher- bourg and le havre. english and american troops are already engaged in heavy combat. speeches by gerbrandy, the prime minister of belgium, king haakon of norway, de gaulle of france, the king of england and, last but not least, churchill. a huge commotion in the annex! is this really the beginning of the long-awaited liberation? the liberation we've all talked so much about, which still seems too good, too much of a fairy tale ever to come true? will this year, 1944, bring us victory? we don't know yet. but where there's hope, there's life. it fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again. we'll need to be brave to endure the many fears and hardships and the suffering yet to come. it's now a matter of remaining calm and steadfast, of gritting our teeth and keeping a stiff upper lip! france, russia, italy, and even germany, can cry out in agony, but we don't yet have that right! oh, kitty, the best part about the invasion is that i have the feeling that friends are on the way. those terrible germans have oppressed and threatened us for so long that the thought of friends and salvation means everything to us! now it's not just the jews, but holland and all of occupied europe. maybe, margot says, i can even go back to school in october or september. yours, anne m. frank p.s. i'll keep you informed of the latest news! this morning and last night, dummies made of straw and rubber were dropped from the air behind german lines, and they exploded the minute they hit the ground. many paratroopers, their faces blackened so they couldn't be seen in the dark, landed as well. the french coast was bombarded with 5,500 tons of bombs during the night, and then, at six in the morning, the first landing craft came ashore. today there were 20,000 airplanes in action. the german coastal batteries were destroyed even before the landing; a small bridgehead has already been formed. everything's going well, despite the bad weather. the army and the people are "one will and one hope." friday, june 9, 1944 dearest kitty, great news of the invasion! the allies have taken bayeux, a village on the coast of france, and are now fighting for caen. they're clearly intending to cut off the peninsula where cherbourg is located. every evening the war correspondents report on the difficulties, the courage and the fighting spirit of the army. to get their stories, they pull off the most amazing feats. a few of the wounded who are already back in england also spoke on the radio. despite the miserable weather, the planes are flying dthgently back and forth. we heard over the bbc that churchill wanted to land along with the troops on d day, but eisenhower and the other generals managed to talk him out of it. just imagine, so much courage for such an old man he must be at least seventy! the excitement here has died down somewhat; still, we're all hoping that the war will finally be over by the end of the year. it's about time! mrs. van daan's constant griping is unbearable; now that she can no longer drive us crazy with the invasion, she moans and groans all day about the bad weather. if only we could plunk her down in the loft in a bucket of cold water! everyone in the annex except mr. van daan and peter has read the hunaarian rhapsody trilogy, a biography of the composer, piano virtuoso and child prodigy franz liszt. it's very interesting, though in my opinion there's a bit too much emphasis on women; liszt was not only the greatest and most famous pianist of his time, he was also the biggest womanizer, even at the age of seventy. he had an affair with countess marie d' agoult, princess carolyne sayn- wittgenstein, the dancer lola montez, the pianist agnes kingworth, the pianist sophie menter, the circassian princess olga janina, baroness olga meyen- dorff, actress lilla what's- her-name, etc., etc., and there's no end to it. those parts of the book dealing with music and the other arts are much more interesting. some of the people mentioned are schumann, clara wieck, hector berlioz, johannes brahms, beethoven, joachim, richard wagner, hans von bulow, anton rubinstein, frederic chopin, victor hugo, honore de balzac, hiller, hummel, czerny, rossini, cherubini, paganini, mendels- sohn, etc., etc. liszt appears to have been a decent man, very generous and modest, though exceptionally vain. he helped others, put art above all else, was extremely fond of cognac and women, couldn't bear the sight of tears, was a gentleman, couldn't refuse anyone a favor, wasn't interested in money and cared about religious freedom and the world. yours, anne m. frank 314 anne frank tuesday, june 13, 1944 dearest kit, another birthday has gone by, so i'm now fifteen. 