van daan's comb, toilet paper, etc. jan and miep were of course greeted with shouts and tears. jan nailed a pinewood board over the gap in the door and went off again with miep to inform the police of the break-in. miep had also found a note under the ware- house door from sleegers, the night watchman, who had noticed the hole and alerted the police. jan was also planning to see sleegers. so we had half an hour in which to put the house and ourselves to rights. i've never seen such a transformation as in those thirty minutes. margot and i got the beds ready downstairs, went to the bathroom, brushed our teeth, washed our hands and combed our hair. then i straightened up the room a bit and went back upstairs. the table had already been cleared, so we got some water, made coffee and tea, boiled the milk and set the table. father and peter emptied our improvised potties and rinsed them with warm water and powdered bleach. the largest one was filled to the brim and was so heavy they had a hard time lifting it. to make things worse, it was leaking, so they had to put it in a bucket. at eleven o'clock jan was back and joined us at the table, and gradually everyone began to relax. jan had the following story to tell: mr. sleegers was asleep, but his wife told jan that her husband had discovered the hole in the door while making his rounds. he called in a policeman, and the two of them searched the building. mr. sleegers, in his capacity as night watchman, patrols the area every night on his bike, accompanied by his two dogs. his wife said he would come on tuesday and tell mr. kugler the rest. no one at the police station seemed to know anything about the break-in, but they made a note to come first thing tuesday morning to have a look. on the way back jan happened to run into mr. van hoeven, the man who supplies us with potatoes, and told him of the break-in. "i know," mr. van hoeven calmly replied. "last night when my wife and i were walking past your building, i saw a gap in the door. my wife wanted to walk on, but i peeked inside with a flashlight, and that's when the burglars must have run off. to be on the safe side, i didn't call the police. i thought it wouldn't be wise in your case. i don't know anything, but i have my suspicions." jan thanked him and went on. mr. van hoeven obviously suspects we're here, because he always delivers the potatoes at lunchtime. a decent man! it was one o'clock by the time jan left and we'd done the dishes. all eight of us went to bed. i woke up at quarter to three and saw that mr. dussel was already up. my face rumpled with sleep, i happened to run into peter in the bathroom, just after he'd come downstairs. we agreed to meet in the office. i freshened up a bit and went down. "after all this, do you still dare go to the front attic?" he asked. i nodded, grabbed my pillow, with a cloth wrapped around it, and we went up together. the weather was gorgeous, and even though the air-raid sirens soon began to wail, we stayed where we were. peter put his arm around my shoulder, i put mine around his, and we sat quietly like this until four o'clock, when margot came to get us for coffee. we ate our bread, drank our lemonade and joked (we were finally able to again), and for the rest everything was back to normal. that evening i thanked peter because he'd been the bravest of us all. none of us have ever been in such danger as we were that night. god was truly watching over us. just think-the police were right at the bookcase, the light was on, and still no one had discovered our hiding place! "now we're done for!" i'd whispered at that moment, but once again we were spared. when the invasion comes and the bombs start falling, it'll be every man for himself, but this time we feared for those good, innocent christians who are helping us. "we've been saved, keep on saving us!" that's all we can say. this incident has brought about a whole lot of changes. as of now, dussel will be doing his work in the bathroom, and peter will be patrolling the house between eight-thirty and nine-thirty. peter isn't allowed to open his window anymore, since one of the keg people noticed it was open. we can no longer flush the toilet after nine-thirty at night. mr. sleegers has been hired as night watchman, and tonight a carpenter from the underground is coming to make a barricade out of our white frankfurt bedsteads. debates are going on left and right in the annex. mr. kugler has reproached us for our carelessness. jan also said we should never go downstairs. what we have to do now is find out whether sleegers can be trusted, whether the dogs will bark if they hear someone behind the door, how to make the barricade, all sorts of things. we've been strongly reminded of the fact that we're jews in chains, chained to one spot, without any rights, but with a thousand obligations. we must put our feelings aside; we must be brave and strong, bear discomfort with- out complaint, do whatever is in our power and trust in god. one day this terrible war will be over. the time will come when we'll be people again and not just jews! who has inflicted this on us? who has set us apart from all the rest? who has put us through such suffering? it's god who has made us the way we are, but it's also god who will lift 