be lonely even when you're loved by many people, since you're still not bd'"di" any 0 y s one an only. and hanneli? is she still alive? what's she doing? dear god, watch over her and bring her back to us. hanneli, you're a reminder of what my fate might have been. i keep seeing myself in your place. so why am i often miserable about what goes on here? shouldn't i be happy, contented and glad, except when i'm thinking of hanneli and those suffering along with her? i'm selfish and cowardly. why do i always think and dream the most awful things and want to scream in terror? because, in spite of everything, i still don't have enough faith in god. he's given me so much, which i don't deserve, and yet each day i make so many mistakes! thinking about the suffering of those you hold dear can reduce you to tears; in fact, you could spend the whole day crying. the most you can do is pray for god to perform a miracle and save at least some of them. and i hope i'm doing enough of that! anne thursday, december 30, 1943 dearest kitty, since the last raging quarrels, things have settled down here, not only between ourselves, dussel and "upstairs," but also between mr. and mrs. van d. nevertheless, a few dark thunderclouds are heading this way, and all because of . . . food. mrs. van d. came up with the ridiculous idea of frying fewer potatoes in the morning and saving them for later in the day. mother and dussel and the rest of us didn't agree with her, so now we're dividing up the potatoes as well. it seems the fats and oils aren't being doled out fairly, and mother's going to have to put a stop to it. i'll let you know if there are any interesting developments. for the last few months now we've been splitting up the meat (theirs with fat, ours without), the soup (they eat it, we don't), the potatoes (theirs peeled, ours not), the extras and now the fried potatoes too. if only we could split up completely! yours, anne p.s. bep had a picture postcard of the entire royal family copied for me. juliana looks very young, and so does the queen. the three little girls are adorable. it was incredibly nice of bep, don't you think? sunday, january 2, 1944 dearest kitty, this morning, when i had nothing to do, i leafed through the pages of my diary and came across so many letters dealing with the subject of "mother" in such strong terms that i was shocked. i said to myself, "anne, is that really you talking about hate? oh, anne, how could you?" i continued to sit with the open book in my hand and wonder why i was filled with so much anger and hate that i had to confide it all to you. i tried to understand the anne of last year and make apologies for her, because as long as i leave you with these accusations and don't attempt to explain what prompted them, my conscience won't be clear. i was suffering then (and still do) from moods that kept my head under water (figuratively speaking) and allowed me to see things only from my own perspective, without calmly considering what the others -- those whom i, with my mercurial temperament, had hurt or offended -- had said, and then acting as they would have done. i hid inside myself, thought of no one but myself and calmly wrote down all my joy, sarcasm and sorrow in my diary. because this diary has become a kind of memory book, it means a great deal to me, but i could easily write "over and done with" on many of its pages. i was furious at mother (and still am a lot of the time). it's true, she didn't understand me, but i didn't understand her either. because she loved me, she was tender and affectionate, but because of the difficult situations i put her in, and the sad circumstances in which she found herself, she was nervous and irritable, so i can understand why she was often short with me. i was offended, took it far too much to heart and was insolent and beastly to her, which, in turn, made her unhappy. we were caught in a vicious circle of unpleasantness and sorrow. not a very happy period for either of us, but at least it's coming to an end. i didn't want to see what was going on, and i felt very sorry for myself, but that's understandable too. those violent outbursts on paper are simply expressions of anger that, in normal life, i could have worked off by locking myself in my room and stamping my foot a few times or calling mother names behind her back. the period of tearfully passing judgment on mother is over. i've grown wiser and mother's nerves are a bit steadier. most of the time i manage to hold my tongue when i'm annoyed, and she does too; so on the surface, we seem to be getting along better. but there's one thing i can't do, and that's to love mother with the devotion of a child. i soothe my conscience with the thought that it's better for unkind words to be down on paper than for mother to have to carry them around in her heart. yours, anne thursday, january 6, 1944 dearest kitty, today i have two things to confess. it's going to take a long time, but i have to tell them to someone, and you're the most likely candidate, since i know you'll keep a secret, no matter what happens. the first is about mother. as you know, i've frequently complained about her and then tried my best to be nice. i've suddenly realized what's wrong with her. mother has said that she sees us more 