are increasing. the ration board, the police, the officials-they're all either helping their fellow citizens or denouncing them and sending them off to prison. fortunately, only a small percentage of dutch people are on the wrong side. yours, anne friday, march 31, 1944 dearest kitty, just imagine, it's still fairly cold, and yet most people have been without coal for nearly a month. sounds awful, doesn't it? there's a general mood of optimism about the russian front, because that's going great guns! i don't often write about the political situation, but i must tell you where the russians are at the moment. they've reached the polish border and the prut river in romania. they're close to odessa, and they've surrounded ternopol. every night we're expecting an extra communique from stalin. they're firing off so many salutes in moscow, the city must be rumbling and shaking all day long. whether they like to pretend the fighting's nearby or they simply don't have any other way to express their joy, i don't know! hungary has been occupied by german troops. there are still a million jews living there; they too are doomed. nothing special is happening here. today is mr. van daan's birthday. he received two packets of tobacco, one serving of coffee, which his wife had managed to save, lemon punch from mr. kugler, sardines from miep, eau de cologne from us, lilacs, tulips and, last but not least, a cake with raspberry filling, slightly gluey because of the poor quality of the flour and the lack of butter, but deli- cious anyway. all that talk about peter and me has died down a bit. he's coming to pick me up tonight. pretty nice of him, don't you think, since he hates doing it! we're very good friends. we spend a lot of time together and talk about every imaginable subject. it's so nice not having to hold back when we come to a delicate topic, the way i would with other boys. for example, we were talking about blood and somehow the conversation turned to menstruation, etc. he thinks we women are quite tough to be able to withstand the loss of blood, and that i am too. i wonder why? my life here has gotten better, much better. god has not forsaken me, and he never will. yours, anne m. frank saturday, april 1, 1944 my dearest kitty, and yet everything is still so difficult. you do know what i mean, don't you? i long so much for him to kiss me, but that kiss is taking its own sweet time. does he still think of me as a friend? don't i mean anything more? you and i both know that i'm strong, that i can carry most burdens alone. i've never been used to sharing my worries with anyone, and i've never clung to a mother, but i'd love to lay my head on his shoulder and just sit there quietly. i can't, i simply can't forget that dream of peter's cheek, when everything was so good! does he have the same longing? is he just too shy to say he loves me? why does he want me near him so much? oh, why doesn't he say something? i've got to stop, i've got to be calm. i'll try to be strong again, and if i'm patient, the rest will follow. but -- and this is the worst part -- i seem to be chasing him. i'm always the one who has to go upstairs; he never comes to me. but that's because of the rooms, and he understands why i object. oh, i'm sure he understands more than i think . yours, anne m. frank monday, april 3, 1944 my dearest kitty, contrary to my usual practice, i'm going to write you a detailed description of the food situation, since it's become a matter of some difficulty and importance, not only here in the annex, but in all of holland, all of europe and even beyond. in the twenty-one months we've lived here, we've been through a good many "food cycles" -- you'll understand what that means in a moment. a "food cycle" is a period in which we have only one particular dish or type of vegetable to eat. for a long time we ate nothing but endive. endive with sand, endive without sand, endive with mashed potatoes, endive-and-mashed potato casserole. then it was spinach, followed by kohlrabi, salsify, cucumbers, tomatoes, sauerkraut, etc., etc. it's not much fun when you have to eat, say, sauer- kraut every day for lunch and dinner, but when you're hungry enough, you do a lot of things. now, however, we're going through the most delightful period so far, because there are no vegetables at all. our weekly lunch menu consists of brown beans, split-pea soup, potatoes with dumplings, potato kugel and, by the grace of god, turnip greens or rotten carrots, and then it's back to brown beans. because of the bread shortage, we eat potatoes at every meal, starting with breakfast, but then we fry them a little. to make soup we use brown beans, navy beans, potatoes, packages of vege- table soup, packages of chicken soup and packages of bean soup. there are brown beans in everything, including the bread. for dinner we always have potatoes with imitation gravy and -- thank goodness we've still got it -- beet salad. i must tell you about the dumplings. we make them with government-issue flour, water and yeast. they're so gluey and tough that it feels as if you had rocks in your stomach, but oh well! the high point is our weekly slice of liverwurst, and the jam on our unbuttered bread. but we're still alive, and much of the time it still tastes good too! yours, anne m. frank wednesday, april 5, 1944 my dearest kitty, for a long time now i didn't know why i was bothering to do any schoolwork. the end of the war still 