up the fact that margot eats so little. "i suppose you do it to keep your figure," he added in a mocking tone. mother, who always comes to margot's defense, said in a loud voice, "i can't stand that stupid chatter of yours a minute longer." mrs. van d. turned red as a beet. mr. van d. stared straight ahead and said nothing. still, we often have a good laugh. not long ago mrs. van d. was entertaining us with some bit of nonsense or another. she was talking about the past, about how well she got along with her father and what a flirt she was. "and you know," she continued, "my father told me that if a gentleman ever got fresh, i was to say, 'remem ber, sir, that i'm a lady,' and he'd know what i meant." we split our sides laughing, as if she'd told us a good joke. even peter, though he's usually quiet, occasionally gives rise to hilarity. he has the misfortune of adoring foreign words without knowing what they mean. one afternoon we couldn't use the toilet because there were visitors in the office. unable to wait, he went to the bathroom but didn't flush the toilet. to warn us of the unpleasant odor, he tacked a sign to the bathroom door: "rsvp -- gas!" of course, he meant "danger -- gas!" but he thought "rsvp" looked more elegant. he didn't have the faintest idea that it meant "please reply." yours, anne saturday, february 27, 1943 dearest kitty, pim is expecting the invasion any day now. churchill has had pneumonia, but is gradually getting better. gandhi, the champion of indian freedom, is on one of his umpteenth hunger strikes. mrs. van d. claims she's fatalistic. but who's the most afraid when the guns go off? none other than petronella van daan. jan brought along the episcopal letter that the bishops addressed to their parishioners. it was beautiful and inspiring. "people of the netherlands, stand up and take action. each of us must choose our own weapons to fight for the freedom of our country, our people and our reli gion! give your help and support. act now!" this is what they're preaching from the pulpit. will it do any good? it's definitely too late to help our fellow jews. guess what's happened to us now? the owner of the building sold it without informing mr. kugler and mr. kleiman. one morning the new landlord arrived with an architect to look the place over. thank goodness mr. kleiman was in the office. he showed the gentlemen all there was to see, with the exception of the secret annex. he claimed he'd left the key at home and the new owner asked no further questions. if only he doesn't come back demanding to see the annex. in that case, we'll be in big trouble! father emptied a card file for margot and me and filled it with index cards that are blank on one side. this is to become our reading file, in which margot and i are supposed to note down the books we've read, the author and the date. i've learned two new words: "brothel" and "coquette." i've bought a separate notebook for new words. there's a new division of butter and margarine. each person is to get their portion on their own plate. the distribution is very unfair. the van daans, who always make breakfast for everyone, give themselves one and a half times more than they do us. my parents are much too afraid of an argument to say anything, which is a shame, because i think people like that should always be given a taste of their own medicine. yours, anne thursday, march 4, 1943 dearest kitty, mrs. van d. has a new nickname -- we've started calling her mrs. beaverbrook. of course, that doesn't mean anything to you, so let me explain. a certain mr. beaverbrook often talks on the english radio about what he considers to be the far too lenient bombardment of germany. mrs. van daan, who always contradicts everyone, including churchill and the news reports, is in complete agreement with mr. beaverbrook. so we thought it would be a good idea for her to be married to him, and since she was flattered by the notion, we've decided to call her mrs. beaverbrook from now on. we're getting a new warehouse employee, since the old one is being sent to germany. that's bad for him but good for us because the new one won't be famthar with the building. we're still afraid of the men who work in the warehouse. gandhi is eating again. the black market is doing a booming business. if we had enough money to pay the ridiculous prices, we could stuff ourselves silly. our greengrocer buys potatoes from the "wehrmacht" and brings them in sacks to the private office. since he suspects we're hiding here, he makes a point of coming during lunchtime, when the warehouse employees are out. so much pepper is being ground at the moment that we sneeze and cough with every breath we take. everyone who comes upstairs greets us with an "ah-choo." mrs. van d. swears she won't go downstairs; one more whiff of pepper and she's going to get sick. i don't think father has a very nice business. noth ing but pectin and pepper. as long as you're in the food business, why not make candy? a veritable thunderstorm of words came crashing down on me again this morning. the air flashed with so many coarse expressions that my ears were ringing with "anne's bad this" annd "van daans' good that." fire and brimstone! yours, anne wednesday, march 10, 1943 dearest kitty, we had a short circuit last night, and besides that, the guns were booming away until dawn. i still haven't gotten over my fear of planes and shooting, and i crawl into father's bed nearly every night for comfort. i know it sounds 