further away by being irritable. this is a point i think about quite often: why is it that rim annoys me so much sometimes? i can hardly bear to have him tutor me, and his affection seems forced. i want to be left alone, and i'd rather he ignored me for a while until i'm more sure of myself when i'm talking to him! i'm still torn with guilt about the mean letter i wrote him when i was so upset. oh, it's hard to be strong and brave in every way! . .. still, this hasn't been my greatest disappointment. no, i think about peter much more than i do father. i know very well that he was my conquest, and not the other way around. i created an image of him in my mind, pictured him as a quiet, sweet, sensitive boy badly in need of friendship and love! i needed to pour out my heart to a living person. i wanted a friend who would help me find my way again. i accomplished what i set out to do and drew him, slowly but surely, toward me. when i finally got him to be my friend, it automatically developed into an intimacy that, when i think about it now, seems outrageous. we talked about the most private things, but we haven't yet touched upon the things closest to my heart. i still can't make head or tail of peter. is he superficial, or is it shyness that holds him back, even with me? but putting all that aside, i made one mistake: i used intimacy to get closer to him, and in doing so, i ruled out other forms of friendship. he longs to be loved, and i can see he's beginning to like me more with each passing day. our time together leaves him feeling satisfied, but just makes me want to start all over again. i never broach the subjects i long to bring out into the open. i forced peter, more than he realizes, to get close to me, and now he's holding on for dear life. i honestly don't see any effective way of shaking him off and getting him back on his own two feet. i soon realized he could never be a kindred spirit, but still tried to help him break out of his narrow world and expand his youthful horizons. "deep down, the young are lonelier than the old." i read this in a book somewhere and it's stuck in my mind. as far as i can tell, it's true. so if you're wondering whether it's harder for the adults here than for the children, the answer is no, it's certainly not. older people have an opinion about everything and are sure of themselves and their actions. it's twice as hard for us young people to hold on to our opinions at a time when ideals are being shattered and destroyed, when the worst side of human nature predominates, when everyone has come to doubt truth, justice and god. anyone who claims that the older folks have a more difficult time in the annex doesn't realize that the problems have a far greater impact on us. we're much too young to deal with these problems, but they keep thrusting themselves on us until, finally, we're forced to think up a solution, though most of the time our solutions crumble when faced with the facts. it's difficult in times like these: ideals, dreams and cherished hopes rise within us, only to be crushed by grim reality. it's a wonder i haven't abandoned all my ideals, they seem so absurd and impractical. yet i cling to them because i still believe, in spite of everything, that people are truly good at heart. it's utterly impossible for me to build my life on a foundation of chaos, suffering and death. i see the world being slowly transformed into a wilderness, i hear the approaching thunder that, one day, will destroy us too, i feel the suffering of millions. and yet, when i look up at the sky, i somehow feel that everything will change for the better, that this cruelty too shall end, that peace and tranquthty will return once more. in the meantime, i must hold on to my ideals. perhaps the day will come when i'll be able to realize them! yours, anne m. frank friday, july 21, 1944 dearest kitty, i'm finally getting optimistic. now, at last, things are going well! they really are! great news! an assassination attempt has been made on hitler's life, and for once not by jewish communists or english capitalists, but by a german general who's not only a count, but young as well. the fuhrer owes his life to "divine providence": he escaped, unfortunately, with only a few minor burns and scratches. a number of the officers and generals who were nearby were killed or wounded. the head of the conspiracy has been shot. this is the best proof we've had so far that many officers and generals are fed up with the war and would like to see hitler sink into a bottomless pit, so they can establish a mthtary dictatorship, make peace with the allies, rearm themselves and, after a few decades, start a new war. perhaps providence is deliberately biding its time getting rid of hider, since it's much easier, and cheaper, for the allies to let the impeccable germans kill each other off. it's less work for the russians and the british, and it allows them to start rebuilding their own cities all that much sooner. but we haven't reached that point yet, and i'd hate to anticipate the glorious event. still, you've probably noticed that i'm telling the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. for once, i'm not rattling on about high ideals. furthermore, hitler has been so kind as to announce to his loyal, devoted people that as of today all mthtary personnel are under 