or even more, for someone to confide in. peter and i have both spent our contemplative years in the annex. we often discuss the future, the past and the present, but as i've already told you, i miss the real thing, and yet i know it exists! is it because i haven't been outdoors for so long that i've become so smitten with nature? i remember a time when a magnificent blue sky, chirping birds, moonlight and budding blossoms wouldn't have captivated me. things have changed since i came here. one night during the pentecost holiday, for instance, when it was so hot, i struggled to keep my eyes open until eleven-thirty so i could get a good look at the moon, all on my own for once. alas, my sacrifice was in vain, since there was too much glare and i couldn't risk opening a window. an- other time, several months ago, i happened to be upstairs one night when the window was open. i didn't go back down until it had to be closed again. the dark, rainy evening, the wind, the racing clouds, had me spellbound; it was the first time in a year and a half that i'd seen the night face-to-face. after that evening my longing to see it again was even greater than my fear of burglars, a dark rat-infested house or robberies. i went downstairs all by myself and looked out the windows in the kitchen and private office. many people think nature is beautiful, many people sleep from time to time under the starry sky, and many people in hospitals and prisons long for the day when they'll be free to enjoy what nature has to offer. but few are as isolated and cut off as we are from dle joys of nature, which can be shared by rich and poor alike. it's not just my imagination -- looking at dle sky, dle clouds, dle moon and dle stars really does make me feel calm and hopeful. it's much better medicine than valerian or bromide. nature makes me feel humble and ready to face every blow with courage! as luck would have it, i'm only able -- except for a few rare occasions-to view nature through dusty curtains tacked over dirt-caked windows; it takes dle pleasure out of looking. nature is dle one thing for which dlere is no substitute! one of dle many questions that have often bodlered me is why women have been, and still are, thought to be so inferior to men. it's easy to say it's unfair, but that's not enough for me; i'd really like to know the reason for this great injustice! men presumably dominated women from the very beginning because of their greater physical strength; it's men who earn a living, beget children and do as they please. . . until recently, women silently went along willi this, which was stupid, since the longer it's kept up, the more deeply entrenched it becomes. fortunately, education, work and progress have opened women's eyes. in many countries they've been granted equal rights; many people, mainly women, but also men, now realize how wrong it was to tolerate this state of affairs for so long. modern women want the right to be completely independent! but that's not all. women should be respected as well! generally speaking, men are held in great esteem in all parts ofthe world, so why shouldn't women have their share? soldiers and war heroes are honored and commemorated, explorers are granted immortal fame, martyrs are revered, but how many people look upon women too as soldiers? in the book soldiers on the home front i was greatly struck by the fact that in childbirth alone, women commonly suffer more pain, illness and misery than any war hero ever does. and what's her reward for enduring all that pain? she gets pushed aside when she's disfigured by birth, her children soon leave, her beauty is gone. women, who struggle and suffer pain to ensure the con- tinuation of the human race, make much tougher and more courageous soldiers than all those big-mouthed freedom-fighting heroes put together! i don't mean to imply that women should stop having children; on the contrary, nature intended them to, and that's the way it should be. what i condemn are our system of values and the men who don't acknowledge how great, difficult, but ultimately beautiful women's share in society is. i agree completely with paul de kruif, the author of this book, when he says that men must learn that birth is no longer thought of as inevitable and unavoidable in those parts of the world we consider civthzed. it's easy for men to talk -- they don't and never will have to bear the woes that women do! i believe that in the course of the next century the notion that it's a woman's duty to have children will change and make way for the respect and admiration of all women, who bear their burdens without complaint or a lot of pompous words! yours, anne m. frank friday, june 16, 1944 dearest kitty, new problems: mrs. van d. is at her wit's end. she's talking about getting shot, being thrown in prison, being hanged and suicide. she's jealous that peter confides in me and not in her, offended that dussel doesn't re- spond sufficiently to her flirtations and afraid her husband's going to squander all the fur-coat money on to- bacco. she quarrels, curses, cries, feels sorry for herself, laughs and starts allover again. what on earth can you do with such a silly, sniveling specimen of humanity? nobody takes her seriously, she has no strength of character, she complains to one and all, and you should see how she walks around: von hinten lyzeum, yon vorne museum.* [acts like a schoolgirl, looks like a frump.] even worse, peter's becoming insolent, mr. van daan irritable and mother cynical. yes, everyone's in quite a state! there's only one rule 