the fate of those they're trying to protect. never have they uttered a single word about the burden we must be, never have they complained that we're too much trouble. they come upstairs every day and talk to the men about business and politics, to the women about food and wartime difficulties and to the children about books and newspapers. they put on their most cheerful expressions, bring flowers and gifts for birthdays and holidays and are always ready to do what they can. that's something we should never forget; while others display their heroism in battle or against the germans, our helpers prove theirs every day by their good spirits and affection. the most bizarre stories are making the rounds, yet most of them are really true. for instance, mr. kleiman reported this week that a soccer match was held in the province of gelderland; one team consisted entirely of men who had gone underground, and the other of eleven military policemen. in hilversum, new registration cards were issued. in order for the many people in hiding to get their rations (you have to show this card to obtain your ration book or else pay 60 guilders a book), the registrar asked all those hiding in that district to pick up their cards at a specified hour, when the documents could be collected at a separate table. all the same, you have to be careful that stunts like these don't reach the ears of the germans. yours, anne sunday, january 30, 1944 my dearest kit, another sunday has rolled around; i don't mind them as much as i did in the beginning, but they're boring enough. i still haven't gone to the warehouse yet, but maybe sometime soon. last night i went downstairs in the dark, all by myself, after having been there with father a few nights before. i stood at the top of the stairs while german planes flew back and forth, and i knew i was on my own, that i couldn't count on others for support. my fear vanished. i looked up at the sky and trusted in god. i have an intense need to be alone. father has noticed i'm not my usual self, but i can't tell him what's bothering me. all i want to do is scream "let me be, leave me alone!" who knows, perhaps the day will come when i'm left alone more than i'd like! anne frank thursday, february 3, 1944 dearest kitty, invasion fever is mounting daily throughout the country. if you were here, i'm sure you'd be as impressed as i am at the many preparations, though you'd no doubt laugh at all the fuss we're making. who knows, it may all be for nothing! the papers are full of invasion news and are driving everyone insane with such statements as: "in the event of a british landing in holland, the germans will do what they can to defend the country, even flooding it, if necessary." they've published maps of holland with the potential flood areas marked. since large portions of amsterdam were shaded in, our first question was what we should do if the water in the streets rose to above our waists. this tricky question elicited a variety of responses: "it'll be impossible to walk or ride a bike, so we'll have to wade through the water." "don't be silly. we'll have to try and swim. we'll all put on our bathing suits and caps and swim underwater as much as we can, so nobody can see we're jews." "oh, baloney! i can just imagine the ladies swimming with the rats biting their legs!" (that was a man, of course; we'll see who screams loudest!) "we won't even be able to leave the house. the warehouse is so unstable it'll collapse if there's a flood." "listen, everyone, all joking aside, we really ought to try and get a boat." "why bother? i have a better idea. we can each take a packing crate from the attic and row with a wooden spoon." "i'm going to walk on stilts. i used to be a whiz at it when i was young." "jan gies won't need to. he'll let his wife ride piggyback, and then miep will be on stilts." so now you have a rough idea of what's going on, don't you, kit? this lighthearted banter is all very amusing, but reality will prove otherwise. the second question about the invasion was bound to arise: what should we do if the germans evacuate amsterdam? "leave the city along with the others. disguise ourselves as well as we can." "whatever happens, don't go outside! the best thing to do is to stay put! the germans are capable of herding the entire population of holland into germany, where they'll all die." "of course we'll stay here. this is the safest place. we'll try to talk kleiman and his family into coming here to live with us. we'll somehow get hold of a bag of wood shavings, so we can sleep on the floor. let's ask miep and kleiman to bring some blankets, just in case. and we'll order some extra cereal grains to supplement the sixty-five pounds we already have. jan can try to find some more beans. at the moment we've got about sixty-five pounds of beans and ten pounds of split peas. and don't forget the fifty cans of vegetables." "what about the rest, mother? give us the latest figures.' , "ten cans of fish, forty cans of milk, twenty pounds of powdered milk, three bottles of oil, four crocks of butter, four jars of meat, two big jars of strawberries, two jars of raspberries, twenty jars of tomatoes, ten pounds of oatmeal, nine pounds of rice. that's it." our provisions are holding out fairly well. all the same, we have to feed the office staff, which means dipping into our stock every week, so it's not as much as it seems. we have enough coal 