give a moment's thought to all this suffering if it weren't for the fact that we're so worried about those we hold dear, whom we can no longer help. i feel wicked sleeping in a warm bed, while somewhere out there my dearest friends are dropping from exhaustion or being knocked to the ground. i get frightened myself when i think of close friends who are now at the mercy of the cruelest monsters ever to stalk the earth. and all because they're jews. yours, anne friday, november 20, 1942 dearest kitty, we don't really know how to react. up to now very little news about the jews had reached us here, and we thought it best to stay as cheerful as possible. every now and then miep used to mention what had happened to a friend, and mother or mrs. van daan would start to cry, so she decided it was better not to say any more. but we bombarded mr. dussel with questions, and the stories he had to tell were so gruesome and dreadful that we can't get them out of our heads. once we've had time to digest the news, we'll probably go back to our usual joking and teasing. it won't do us or those outside any good if we continue to be as gloomy as we are now. and what would be the point of turning the secret annex into a melancholy annex? no matter what i'm doing, i can't help thinking about those who are gone. i catch myself laughing and remember that it's a disgrace to be so cheerful. but am i supposed to spend the whole day crying? no, i can't do that. this gloom will pass. added to this misery there's another, but of a more personal nature, and it pales in comparison to the suffering i've just told you about. still, i can't help telling you that lately i've begun to feel deserted. i'm surrounded by too great a void. i never used to give it much thought, since my mind was filled with my friends and having a good time. now i think either about unhappy things or about myself. it's taken a while, but i've finally realized that father, no matter how kind he may be, can't take the place of my former world. when it comes to my feelings, mother and margot ceased to count long ago. but why do i bother you with this foolishness? i'm terribly ungrateful, kitty, i know, but when i've been scolded for the umpteenth time and have all these other woes to think about as well, my head begins to reel! yours, anne saturday, november 2g, 1942 dearest kitty, we've been using too much electricity and have now exceeded our ration. the result: excessive economy and the prospect of having the electricity cut off. no light for fourteen days; that's a pleasant thought, isn't it? but who knows, maybe it won't be so long! it's too dark to read after four or four-thirty, so we while away the time with all kinds of crazy activities: telling riddles, doing calisthenics in the dark, speaking english or french, reviewing books -- after a while everything gets boring. yesterday i discovered a new pastime: using a good pair of binoculars to peek into the lighted rooms of the neighbors. during the day our curtains can't be opened, not even an inch, but there's no harm when it's so dark. i never knew that neighbors could be so interesting. ours are, at any rate. i've come across a few at dinner, one family making home movies and the dentist across the way working on a frightened old lady. mr. dussel, the man who was said to get along so well with children and to absolutely adore them, has turned out to be an old-fashioned disciplinarian and preacher of unbearably long sermons on manners. since i have the singular pleasure (!) of sharing my far too narrow room with his excellency, and since i'm generally considered to be the worst behaved of the three young people, it's all i can do to avoid having the same old scoldings and admonitions repeatedly flung at my head and to pretend not to hear. this wouldn't be so bad if mr. dussel weren't such a tattletale and hadn't singled out mother to be the recipient of his reports. if mr. dussel's just read me the riot act, mother lectures me all over again, this time throwing the whole book at me. and if i'm really lucky, mrs. van d. calls me to account five minutes later and lays down the law as well! really, it's not easy being the badly brought-up center of attention of a family of nitpickers. in bed at night, as i ponder my many sins and exaggerated shortcomings, i get so confused by the sheer amount of things i have to consider that i either laugh or cry, depending on my mood. then i fall asleep with the strange feeling of wanting to be different than i am or being different than i want to be, or perhaps of behaving differently than i am or want to be. oh dear, now i'm confusing you too. forgive me, but i don't like crossing things out, and in these times of scarcity, tossing away a piece of paper is clearly taboo. so i can only advise you not to reread the above passage and to make no attempt to get to the bottom of it, because you'll never find your way out again! yours, anne monday, december 7, 1942 dearest kitty, hanukkah and st. nicholas day nearly coincided this year; they were only one day apart. we didn't make much of a fuss with hanukkah, merely exchanging a few small gifts and lighting the candles. since candles are in short supply, we lit them for only ten minutes, but as long as we sing the song, that doesn't matter. mr. van daan made a menorah out 