time, the shopping lists would shrink of their own accord. saturday there was a big drama, the likes of which have never been seen here before. it started with a discussion of van maaren and ended in a general argument and tears. dussel complained to mother that he was being treated like a leper, that no one was friendly to him and that, after all, he hadn't done anything to deserve it. this was followed by a lot of sweet talk, which luckily mother didn't fall for this time. she told him we were disappointed in him and that, on more than one occasion, he'd been a source of great annoyance. dussel promised her the moon, but, as usual, we haven't seen so much as a beam. there's trouble brewing with the van daans, i can tell! father's furious because they're cheating us: they've been holding back meat and other things. oh, what kind of bombshell is about to burst now? if only i weren't so involved in all these skirmishes! if only i could leave here! they're driving us crazy! yours, anne sunday, october 17, 1943 dearest kitty, mr. kleiman is back, thank goodness! he looks a bit pale, and yet he cheerfully set off to sell some clothes for mr. van daan. the disagreeable fact is that mr. van daan has run out of money. he lost his last hundred guilders in the warehouse, which is still creating trouble for us: the men are wondering how a hundred guilders could wind up in the warehouse on a monday morning. suspicion abounds. meanwhile, the hundred guilders have been stolen. who's the thief? but i was talking about the money shortage. mrs. van d. has scads of dresses, coats and shoes, none of which she feels she can do without. mr. van d.'s suit is difficult to sell, and peter's bike was put on the block, but is back again, since nobody wanted it. but the story doesn't end there. you see, mrs. van d. is going to have to part with her fur coat. in her opinion, the firm should pay for our upkeep, but that's ridiculous. they just had a flaming row about it and have entered the "oh, my sweet putti" and "darling kerli" stage of reconciliation. my mind boggles at the profanity this honorable house has had to endure in the past month. father walks around with his lips pressed together, and whenever he hears his name, he looks up in alarm, as ifhe's afraid he'll be called upon to resolve another delicate problem. mother's so wrought up her cheeks are blotched with red, margot complains of headaches, dussel can't sleep, mrs. van d. frets and fumes all day long, and i've gone completely round the bend. to tell you the truth, i sometimes forget who we're at odds with and who we're not. the only way to take my mind off it is to study, and i've been doing a lot of that lately. yours, anne friday, october 29,1943 my dearest kitty, mr. kleiman is out again; his stomach won't give him a moment's peace. he doesn't even know whether it's stopped bleeding. he came to tell us he wasn't feeling well and was going home, and for the first time he seemed really down. mr. and mrs. van d. have had more raging battles. the reason is simple: they're broke. they wanted to sell an overcoat and a suit of mr. van d. 's, but were unable to find any buyers. his prices were way too high. some time ago mr. kleiman was talking about a furrier he knows. this gave mr. van d. the idea of selling his wife's fur coat. it's made of rabbit skin, and she's had it for seventeen years. mrs. van d. got 325 guilders for it, an enormous amount. she wanted to keep the money herself to buy new clothes after the war, and it took some doing before mr. van d. could make her understand that it was desperately needed to cover household expenses. you can't imagine the screaming, shouting, stamping of feet and swearing that went on. it was terrifying. my family stood holding its breath at the bottom of the stairs, in case it might be necessary to drag them apart. all the bickering, tears and nervous tension have become such a stress and strain that i fall into my bed at night crying and thanking my lucky stars that i have half an hour to myself. i'm doing fine, except i've got no appetite. i keep hearing: "goodness, you look awful!" i must admit they're doing their best to keep me in condition: they're plying me with dextrose, cod-liver oil, brewer's yeast and calcium. my nerves often get the better of me, especially on sundays; that's when i really feel miserable. the atmosphere is stifling, sluggish, leaden. outside, you don't hear a single bird, and a deathly, oppressive silence hangs over the house and clings to me as if it were going to drag me into the deepest regions of the underworld. at times like these, father, mother and margot don't matter to me in the least. i wander from room to room, climb up and down the stairs and feel like a songbird whose wings have been ripped off and who keeps hurling itself against the bars of its dark cage. "let me out, where there's fresh air and laughter!" a voice within me cries. i don't even bother to reply anymore, but lie down on the divan. sleep makes the silence and the terrible fear go by more quickly, helps pass the time, since it's impossible to kill it. yours, anne wednesday, november 3, 1943 dearest kitty, to take our minds off matters as well as to develop them, father ordered a catalog from a correspondence school. margot pored through the thick brochure three times without finding anything to her liking and within her budget. father was easier to satisfy and decided 