kitty, it's saturday again, and that should tell you enough. this morning all was quiet. i spent nearly an hour upstairs making meatballs, but i only spoke to "him" in passing. when everyone went upstairs at two-thirty to either read or take a nap, i went downstairs, with blanket and all, to sit at the desk and read or write. before long i couldn't take it anymore. i put my head in my arms and sobbed my heart out. the tears streamed down my cheeks, and i felt desperately unhappy. oh, if only' 'he" had come to comfort me. it was past four by the time i went upstairs again. at five o'clock i set off to get some potatoes, hoping once again that we'd meet, but while i was still in the bathroom fixing my hair, he went to see boche. i wanted to help mrs. van d. and went upstairs with my book and everything, but suddenly i felt the tears coming again. i raced downstairs to the bathroom, grabbing the hand mirror on the way. i sat there on the toilet, fully dressed, long after i was through, my tears leaving dark spots on the red of my apron, and i felt utterly dejected. here's what was going through my mind: "oh, i'll never reach peter this way. who knows, maybe he doesn't even like me and he doesn't need anyone to confide in. maybe he only thinks of me in a casual sort of way. i'll have to go back to being alone, without anyone to confide in and without peter, without hope, comfort or anything to look forward to. oh, if only i could rest my head on his shoulder and not feel so hopelessly alone and deserted! who knows, maybe he doesn't care for me at all and looks at the others in the same tender way. maybe i only imagined it was especially for me. oh, peter, if only you could hear me or see me. if the truth is disappointing, i won't be able to bear it." a little later i felt hopeful and full of expectation again, though my tears were still flowing -- on the inside. yours, anne m. frank sunday, february 20, 1944 what happens in other people's houses during the rest of the week happens here in the annex on sundays. while other people put on their best clothes and go strolling in the sun, we scrub, sweep and do the laundry. eight o'clock. though the rest of us prefer to sleep in, dussel gets up at eight. he goes to the bathroom, then downstairs, then up again and then to the bathroom, where he devotes a whole hour to washing himself. nine-thirty. the stoves are lit, the blackout screen is taken down, and mr. van daan heads for the bathroom. one of my sunday morning ordeals is having to lie in bed and look at dussel's back when he's praying. i know it sounds strange, but a praying dussel is a terrible sight to behold. it's not that he cries or gets sentimental, not at all, but he does spend a quarter of an hour -- an entire fifteen minutes -- rocking from his toes to his heels. back and forth, back and forth. it goes on forever, and if i don't shut my eyes tight, my head starts to spin. ten-fifteen. the van daans whistle; the bathroom's free. in the frank family quarters, the first sleepy faces are beginning to emerge from their pillows. then everything happens fast, fast, fast. margot and i take turns doing the laundry. since it's quite cold downstairs, we put on pants and head scarves. meanwhile, father is busy in the bathroom. either margot or i have a turn in the bathroom at eleven, and then we're all clean. eleven-thirty. breakfast. i won't dwell on this, since there's enough talk about food without my bringing the subject up as well. twelve-fifteen. we each go our separate ways. father, clad in overalls, gets down on his hands and knees and brushes the rug so vigorously that the room is enveloped in a cloud of dust. mr. dussel makes the beds (all wrong, of course), always whistling the same beethoven violin concerto as he goes about his work. mother can be heard shuffling around the attic as she hangs up the washing. mr. van daan puts on his hat and disappears into the lower regions, usually followed by peter and mouschi. mrs. van d. dons a long apron, a black wool jacket and overshoes, winds a red wool scarf around her head, scoops up a bundle of dirty laundry and, with a well-rehearsed washerwoman's nod, heads downstairs. margot and i do the dishes and straighten up the room. wednesday, february 23,1944 my dearest kitty, the weather's been wonderful since yesterday, and i've perked up quite a bit. my writing, the best thing i have, is coming along well. i go to the attic almost every morning to get the stale air out of my lungs. this morning when i went there, peter was busy cleaning up. he finished quickly and came over to where i was sitting on my favorite spot on the floor. the two of us looked out at the blue sky, the bare chestnut tree glistening with dew, the seagulls and other birds glinting with silver as they swooped through the air, and we were so moved and entranced that we couldn't speak. he stood with his head against a thick beam, while i sat. we breathed in the air, looked outside and both felt that the spell shouldn't be broken with words. we remained like this for a long while, and by the time he had to go to the loft to chop wood, i knew he was a good, decent boy. he climbed the ladder to the loft, and i followed; during the fifteen minutes he was chopping wood, we didn't say a word either. i watched him 