father's sick. he's covered with spots and has a high temperature. it looks like measles. just think, we can't even call a doctor! mother is making him perspire in hopes of sweating out the fever. this morning miep told us that the furniture has been removed from the van daans' apartment on zuider-amstellaan. we haven't told mrs. van d. yet. she's been so "nervenmassig"* [*nervous] lately, and we don't feel like hearing her moan and groan again about all the beautiful china and lovely chairs she had to leave behind. we had to abandon most of our nice things too. what's the good of grumbling about it now? father wants me to start reading books by hebbel and other well-known german writers. i can read german fairly well by now, except that i usually mumble the words instead of reading them silently to myself. but that'll pass. father has taken the plays of goethe and schiller down from the big bookcase and is planning to read to me every evening. we've started off with don carlos. encouraged by father's good example, mother pressed her prayer book into my hands. i read a few prayers in german, just to be polite. they certainly sound beautiful, but they mean very little to me. why is she making me act so religious and devout? tomorrow we're going to light the stove for the first time. the chimney hasn't been swept in ages, so the room is bound to fill with smoke. let's hope the thing draws! yours, anne monday, november 2, 1942 dear kitty, bep stayed with us friday evening. it was fun, but she didn't sleep very well because she'd drunk some wine. for the rest, there's nothing special to report. i had an awful headache yesterday and went to bed early. margot's being exasperating again. this morning i began sorting out an index card file from the office, because it'd fallen over and gotten all mixed up. before long i was going nuts. i asked margot and peter to help, but they were too lazy, so i put it away. i'm not crazy enough to do it all by myself! anne frank ps. i forgot to mention the important news that i'm probably going to get my period soon. i can tell because i keep finding a whitish smear in my panties, and mother predicted it would start soon. i can hardly wait. it's such a momentous event. too bad i can't use sanitary napkins, but you can't get them anymore, and mama's tampons can be used only by women who've had a baby. i comment added by anne on january 22, 1944: i wouldn't be able to write that kind of thing anymore. now that i'm rereading my diary after a year and a half, i'm surprised at my childish innocence. deep down i know i could never be that innocent again, however much i'd like to be. i can understand the mood chanaes and the comments about margot, mother and father as if i'd written them only yesterday, but i can't imagine writina so openly about other matters. it embarrasses me areatly to read the panes dealina with subjects that i remembered as beina nicer than they actually were. my descriptions are so indelicate. but enouah of that. i can also understand my homesickness and yearning for moortje. the whole time i've been here i've longed unconsciously and at times consciously for trust, love and physical affection. this longing may change in intensity, but it's always there. thursday, november 5, 1942 dear kitty, the british have finally scored a few successes in africa and stalingrad hasn't fallen yet, so the men are happy and we had coffee and tea this morning. for the rest, nothing special to report. this week i've been reading a lot and doing little work. that's the way things ought to be. that's surely the road to success. mother and i are getting along better lately, but we're never close. father's not very open about his feelings, but he's the same sweetheart he's always been. we lit the stove a few days ago and the entire room is still filled with smoke. i prefer central heating, and i'm probably not the only one. margot's a stinker (there's no other word for it), a constant source of irritation, morning, noon and night. anne frank saturday, november 7, 1942 dearest kitty, mother's nerves are very much on edge, and that doesn't bode well for me. is it just a coincidence that father and mother never scold margot and always blame me for everything? last night, for example, margot was reading a book with beautiful illustrations; she got up and put the book aside for later. i wasn't doing anything, so i picked it up and began looking at the pictures. margot carne back, saw' "her" book in my hands, knitted her brow and angrily demanded the book back. i wanted to look through it some more. margot got madder by the minute, and mother butted in: "margot was reading that book; give it back to her." father came in, and without even knowing what was going on, saw that margot was being wronged and lashed out at me: "i'd like to see what you'd do if margot was looking at one of your books!" i promptly gave in, put the book down and, according to them, left the room' 'in a huff." i was neither huffy nor cross, but merely sad. it wasn't right of father to pass judgment without knowing what the issue was. i would have given the book to margot myself, and a lot sooner, if father and mother hadn't intervened and rushed to take margot's part, as if she were suffering some great injustice. of course, mother took margot's side; they always take each other's sides. i'm so used to it that i've become completely indifferent to mother's rebukes and margot's moodiness. i love them, but only because they're mother and margot. i 