concert on the radio from six to seven-fifteen; i especially enjoyed the kleine nachtmusik. i can hardly bear to listen in the kitchen, since beautiful music stirs me to the very depths of my soul. sunday evening peter couldn't take his balli, because the washtub was down in the office kitchen, filled with laundry. the two of us went to the front attic together, and in order to be able to sit comfortably, i took along the only cushion i could find in my room. we seated ourselves on a packing crate. since both the crate and the cushion were very narrow, we were sitting quite close, leaning against two other crates; mouschi kept us company, so we weren't without a chaperon. suddenly, at a quarter to nine, mr. van daan whistled and asked if we had mr. dussel's cushion. we jumped up and went downstairs willi the cushion, the cat and mr. van daan. this cushion was the source of much misery. dussel was angry because i'd taken the one he uses as a pillow, and he was afraid it might be covered with fleas; he had the entire house in an uproar because of this one cushion. in revenge, peter and i stuck two hard brushes in his bed, but had to take them out again when dussel unexpectedly decided to go sit in his room. we had a really good laugh at this little intermezzo. but our fun was short-lived. at nine-thirty peter knocked gently on the door and asked father to come upstairs and help him with a difficult english sentence. "that sounds fishy," i said to margot. "it's obviously a pretext. you can tell by the way the men are talking that there's been a break-in!" i was right. the warehouse was being broken into at that very moment. father, mr. van daan and peter were downstairs in a flash. margot, mother, mrs. van d. and i waited. four frightened women need to talk, so that's what we did until we heard a bang downstairs. after that all was quiet. the clock struck quarter to ten. the color had drained from our faces, but we remained calm, even though we were afraid. where were the men? what was that bang? were they fighting with the burglars? we were too scared to think; all we could do was wait. ten o'clock, footsteps on the stairs. father, pale and nervous, came inside, followed by mr. van daan. "lights out, tiptoe upstairs, we're expecting the police!" there wasn't time to be scared. the lights were switched off, i grabbed a jacket, and we sat down upstairs. "what happened? tell us quickly!" there was no one to tell us; the men had gone back downstairs. the four of them didn't come back up until ten past ten. two of them kept watch at peter's open window. the door to the landing was locked, the book- case shut. we draped a sweater over our night-light, and then they told us what had happened: peter was on the landing when he heard two loud bangs. he went downstairs and saw that a large panel was missing from the left half of the warehouse door. he dashed upstairs, alerted the "home guard," and the four of them went downstairs. when they entered the warehouse, the burglars were going about their business. without thinking, mr. van daan yelled "police!" hur- ried footsteps outside; the burglars had fled. the board was put back in the door so the police wouldn't notice the gap, but then a swift kick from outside sent it flying to the floor. the men were amazed at the burglars' audacity. both peter and mr. van daan felt a murderous rage come over them. mr. van daan slammed an ax against the floor, and all was quiet again. once more the panel was re- placed, and once more the attempt was foiled. outside, a man and a woman shone a glaring flashlight through the opening, lighting up the entire warehouse. "what the . . ." mumbled one of the men, but now their roles had been reversed. instead of policemen, they were now burglars. all four of them raced upstairs. dussel and mr. van daan snatched up dussel's books, peter opened the doors and windows in the kitchen and private office, hurled the phone to the ground, and the four of them finally ended up behind the bookcase. end of part one in all probability the man and woman with the flashlight had alerted the police. it was sunday night, easter sunday. the next day, easter monday, the office was going to be closed, which meant we wouldn't be able to move around until tuesday morning. think of it, having to sit in such terror for a day and two nights! we thought of nothing, but simply sat there in pitch darkness -- in her fear, mrs. van d. had switched off the lamp. we whispered, and every time we heard a creak, someone said, "shh, shh." it was ten-thirty, then eleven. not a sound. father and mr. van daan took turns coming upstairs to us. then, at eleven-fifteen, a noise below. up above you could hear the whole family breathing. for the rest, no one moved a muscle. footsteps in the house, the private office, the kitchen, then. . . on the staircase. all sounds of breathing stopped, eight hearts pounded. foot- steps on the stairs, then a rattling at the bookcase. this moment is indescribable. "now we're done for," i said, and i had visions of all fifteen of us being dragged away by the gestapo that very night. more rattling at the bookcase, twice. then we heard a can fall, and the footsteps receded. we were out of danger, so far! a shiver went though everyone's body, i heard several sets of teeth chattering, no one said a word. we stayed like this until eleven-thirty. there were no more sounds in the house, but a light was shining 