with margot; and i get curious and listen too. pim is drawn into the conversation . . . nine o'clock. breakfast! friday, september 10, 1943 dearest kitty, every time i write to you, something special has happened, usually unpleasant rather than pleasant. this time, however, something wonderful is going on. on wednesday, september 8, we were listening to the seven o'clock news when we heard an announcement: "here is some of the best news of the war so far: italy has capitulated." italy has unconditionally surrendered! the dutch broadcast from england began at eight-fifteen with the news: "listeners, an hour and fifteen minutes ago, just as i finished writing my daily report, we received the wonderful news of italy's capitulation. i tell you, i never tossed my notes into the wastepaper basket with more delight than i did today!" "god save the king," the american national anthem and the russian' 'internationale" were played. as always, the dutch program was uplifting without being too optimistic. the british have landed in naples. northern italy is occupied by the germans. the truce was signed on friday, september 3, the day the british landed in italy. the germans are ranting and raving in all the newspapers at the treachery of badoglio and the italian king. still, there's bad news as well. it's about mr. kleiman. as you know, we all like him very much. he's unfailingly cheerful and amazingly brave, despite the fact that he's always sick and in pain and can't eat much or do a lot of walking. "when mr. kleiman enters a room, the sun begins to shine," mother said recently, and she's absolutely right. now it seems he has to go to the hospital for a very difficult operation on his stomach, and will have to stay there for at least four weeks. you should have seen him when he told us good-bye. he acted so normally, as though he were just off to do an errand. yours, anne thursday, september 16, 1943 dearest kitty, relationships here in the annex are getting worse all the time. we don't dare open our mouths at mealtime (except to slip in a bite of food), because no matter what we say, someone is bound to resent it or take it the wrong way. mr. voskuijl occasionally comes to visit us. unfortunately, he's not doing very well. he isn't making it any easier for his family, because his attitude seems to be: what do i care, i'm going to die anyway! when i think how touchy everyone is here, i can just imagine what it must be like at the voskuijls'. i've been taking valerian every day to fight the anxiety and depression, but it doesn't stop me from being even more miserable the next day. a good hearty laugh would help better than ten valerian drops, but we've almost forgotten how to laugh. sometimes i'm afraid my face is going to sag with all this sorrow and that my mouth is going to permanently droop at the corners. the others aren't doing any better. everyone here is dreading the great terror known as winter. another fact that doesn't exactly brighten up our days is that mr. van maaren, the man who works in the warehouse, is getting suspicious about the annex. a person with any brains must have noticed by now that miep sometimes says she's going to the lab, bep to the file room and mr. kleiman to the opekta supplies, while mr. kugler claims the annex doesn't belong to this building at all, but to the one next door. we wouldn't care what mr. van maaren thought of the situation except that he's known to be unreliable and to possess a high degree of curiosity. he's not one who can be put off with a flimsy excuse. one day mr. kugler wanted to be extra cautious, so at twenty past twelve he put on his coat and went to the drugstore around the corner. less than five minutes later he was back, and he sneaked up the stairs like a thief to visit us. at one-fifteen he started to leave, but bep met him on the landing and warned him that van maaren was in the office. mr. kugler did an about-face and stayed with us until one- thirty. then he took off his shoes and went in his stockinged feet (despite his cold) to the front attic and down the other stairway, taking one step at a time to avoid the creaks. it took him fifteen minutes to negotiate the stairs, but he wound up safely in the office after having entered from the outside. in the meantime, bep had gotten rid of van maaren and come to get mr. kugler from the annex. but he'd already left and at that moment was still tiptoeing down the stairs. what must the passersby have thought when they saw the manager putting on his shoes outside? hey, you there, in the socks! yours, anne wednesday, september 29, 1943 dearest kitty, it's mrs. van daan's birthday. other than one ration stamp each for cheese, meat and bread, all she received from us was a jar of jam. her husband, dussel and the office staff gave her nothing but flowers and also food. such are the times we live in! bep had a nervous fit last week because she had so many errands to do. ten times a day people were sending her out for something, each time insisting she go right away or go again or that she'd done it all wrong. and when you think that she has her regular office work to do, that mr. kleiman is sick, that miep is home with a cold and that bep herself has a sprained ankle, boyfriend troubles and a grouchy father, it's no wonder she's at the end of her tether. we comforted her and told her that if she'd put her foot down once or twice and say she didn't have the 