been able to find anyone else to fill the packages, and besides, it's cheaper if we do the job. it's the kind of work they do in prisons. it's incredibly boring and makes us dizzy and giggly. terrible things are happening outside. at any time of night and day, poor helpless people are being dragged out of their homes. they're allowed to take only a knapsack and a little cash with them, and even then, they're robbed of these possessions on the way. families are torn apart; men, women and children are separated. children come home from school to find that their parents have disap peared. women return from shopping to find their houses sealed, their famthes gone. the christians in holland are also living in fear because their sons are being sent to germany. everyone is scared. every night hundreds of planes pass over holland on their way to german cities, to sow their bombs on german soil. every hour hundreds, or maybe even thousands, of people are being killed in russia and africa. no one can keep out of the conflict, the entire world is at war, and even though the allies are doing better, the end is nowhere in sight. as for us, we're quite fortunate. luckier than millions of people. it's quiet and safe here, and we're using our money to buy food. we're so selfish that we talk about "after the war" and look forward to new clothes and shoes, when actually we should be saving every penny to help others when the war is over, to salvage whatever we can. the children in this neighborhood run around in thin shirts and wooden shoes. they have no coats, no caps, no stockings and no one to help them. gnawing on a carrot to still their hunger pangs, they walk from their cold houses through cold streets to an even colder classroom. things have gotten so bad in holland that hordes of children stop passersby in the streets to beg for a piece of bread. i could spend hours telling you about the suffering the war has brought, but i'd only make myself more miserable. all we can do is wait, as calmly as possible, for it to end. jews and christians alike are waiting, the whole world is waiting, and many are waiting for death. yours, anne saturday, january 30, 1943 dearest kitty, i'm seething with rage, yet i can't show it. i'd like to scream, stamp my foot, give mother a good shaking, cry and i don't know what else because of the nasty words, mocking looks and accusations that she hurls at me day after day, piercing me like arrows from a tightly strung bow, which are nearly impossible to pull from my body. i'd like to scream at mother, margot, the van daans, dussel and father too: "leave me alone, let me have at least one night when i don't cry myself to sleep with my eyes burning and my head pounding. let me get away, away from everything, away from this world!" but i can't do that. i can't let them see my doubts, or the wounds they've inflicted on me. i couldn't bear their sympathy or their good-humored derision. it would only make me want to scream even more. everyone thinks i'm showing off when i talk, ridicu lous when i'm silent, insolent when i answer, cunning when i have a good idea, lazy when i'm tired, selfish when i eat one bite more than i should, stupid, cowardly, calculating, etc., etc. all day long i hear nothing but what an exasperating child i am, and although i laugh it off and pretend not to mind, i do mind. i wish i could ask god to give me another personality, one that doesn't antagonize everyone. but that's impossible. i'm stuck with the character i was born with, and yet i'm sure i'm not a bad person. i do my best to please everyone, more than they'd ever suspect in a million years. when i'm upstairs, i try to laugh it off because i don't want them to see my troubles. more than once, after a series of absurd reproaches, i've snapped at mother: "i don't care what you say. why don't you just wash your hands of me -- i'm a hopeless case." of course, she'd tell me not to talk back and virtually ignore me for two days. then suddenly all would be forgotten and she'd treat me like everyone else. it's impossible for me to be all smiles one day and venomous the next. i'd rather choose the golden mean, which isn't so golden, and keep my thoughts to myself. perhaps sometime i'll treat the others with the same contempt as they treat me. oh, if only i could. yours, anne friday, february 5, 1943 dearest kitty, though it's been ages since i've written to you about the squabbles, there's still no change. in the begin ning mr. dussel took our soon-forgotten clashes very seriously, but now he's grown used to them and no longer tries to mediate. margot and peter aren't exactly what you'd call "young"; they're both so quiet and boring. next to them, i stick out like a sore thumb, and i'm always being told, "margot and peter don't act that way. why don't you follow your sister's example!" i hate that. i confess that i have absolutely no desire to be like margot. she's too weak- willed and passive to suit me; she lets herself be swayed by others and always backs down under pressure. i want to have more spunk! but i keep ideas like these to myself. they'd only laugh at me if i offered this in my defense. during meals the air is filled with tension. fortunately, the outbursts are sometimes held in check by the "soup eaters," the people from the office who come up to have a cup of soup for lunch. this afternoon mr. van daan again brought 