me that's enough reason to advise her against marrying him. bep's trying to get ahead in the world, and bertus is pulling her back; he's a laborer, without any interests or any desire to make something of himself, and i don't think that'll make bep happy. i can understand bep's wanting to put an end to her indecision; four weeks ago she decided to write him off, but then she felt even worse. so she wrote him a letter, and now she's engaged. there are several factors involved in this engagement. first, bep's sick father, who likes bertus very much. second, she's the oldest of the voskuijl girls and her mother teases her about being an old maid. third, she's just turned twenty-four, and that matters a great deal to bep. mother said it would have been better if bep had simply had an affair with bertus. i don't know, i feel sorry for bep and can understand her loneliness. in any case, they can get married only after the war, since bertus is in hiding, or at any rate has gone underground. besides, they don't have a penny to their name and nothing in the way of a hope chest. what a sorry prospect for bep, for whom we all wish the best. i only hope bertus improves under her influence, or that bep finds another man, one who knows how to appreciate her! yours, anne m. frank the same day there's something happening every day. this morning mr. van hoeven was arrested. he was hiding two jews in his house. it's a heavy blow for us, not only because those poor jews are once again balancing on the edge of an abyss, but also because it's terrible for mr. van hoeven. the world's been turned upside down. the most decent people are being sent to concentration camps, prisons and lonely cells, while the lowest of the low rule over young and old, rich and poor. one gets caught for black marketeering, another for hiding jews or other un- fortunate souls. unless you're a nazi, you don't know what's going to happen to you from one day to the next. mr. van hoeven is a great loss to us too. bep can't possibly lug such huge amounts of potatoes all the way here, nor should she have to, so our only choice is to eat fewer of them. i'll tell you what we have in mind, but it's certainly not going to make life here any more agreeable. mother says we'll skip breakfast, eat hot cereal and bread for lunch and fried potatoes for dinner and, if possible, vegetables or lettuce once or twice a week. that's all there is. we're going to be hungry, but nothing's worse than being caught. yours, anne m. frank friday, may 26, 1944 my dearest kitty, at long, long last, i can sit quietly at my table before the crack in the window frame and write you everything, everything i want to say. i feel more miserable than i have in months. even after the break-in i didn't feel so utterly broken, inside and out. on the one hand, there's the news about mr. van hoeven, the jewish question (which is discussed in detail by everyone in the house), the invasion (which is so long in coming), the awful food, the tension, the misera- ble atmosphere, my disappointment in peter. on the other hand, there's bep's engagement, the pentecost reception, the flowers, mr. kugler's birthday, cakes and stories about cabarets, movies and concerts. that gap, that enormous gap, is always there. one day we're laugh- ing at the comical side of life in hiding, and the next day (and there are many such days), we're frightened, and the fear, tension and despair can be read on our faces. miep and mr. kugler bear the greatest burden for us, and for all those in hiding- miep in everything she does and mr. kugler through his enormous responsibthty for the eight of us, which is sometimes so overwhelming that he can hardly speak from the pent-up tension and strain. mr. kleiman and bep also take very good care of us, but they're able to put the annex out of their minds, even if it's only for a few hours or a few days. they have their own worries, mr. kleiman with his health and bep with her engagement, which isn't looking very promising lat the moment. but they also have their outings, their visits with friends, their everyday lives as ordinary people, so that the tension is sometimes relieved, if only for a short while, while ours never is, never has been, not once in the two years we've been here. how much longer will this increasingly oppressive, unbearable weight press i down on us? the drains are clogged again. we can't run the wa- ter, or if we do, only a trickle; we can't flush the toilet, so we have to use a toilet brush; and we've been putting our dirty water into a big earthenware jar. we can man- age for today, but what will happen if the plumber can't fix it on his own? the sanitation department can't come until tuesday. miep sent us a raisin bread with "happy pentecost" written on top. it's almost as if she were mocking us, since our moods and cares are far from "happy." we've all become more frightened since the van hoeven business. once again you hear "shh" from all i sides, and we're doing everything more quietly. the police forced the door there; they could just as easily do that here too! what will we do if we're ever. . . no, i mustn't write that down. but the question won't let itself be pushed to the back of my mind today; on the contrary, all the fear i've ever felt is looming before me in all its horror. i had to go downstairs alone at eight this evening to use the bathroom. there 