take it all in. i was caught off guard, and the only way i knew to keep my bearings was to talk back. the first half of 1943 brought crying spells, loneliness and the gradual realization of my faults and short- comings, which were numerous and seemed even more so. i filled the day with chatter, tried to draw pim closer to me and failed. this left me on my own to face the difficult task of improving myself so i wouldn't have to hear their reproaches, because they made me so despondent. the second half of the year was slightly better. i became a teenager, and was treated more like a grown-up. i began to think about things and to write stories, finally coming to the conclusion that the others no longer had anything to do with me. they had no right to swing me back and forth like a pendulum on a clock. i wanted to change myself in my own way. i realized i could man- age without my mother, completely and totally, and that hurt. but what affected me even more was the realization that i was never going to be able to confide in father. i didn't trust anyone but myself. after new year's the second big change occurred: my dream, through which i discovered my longing for . . . a boy; not for a girlfriend, but for a boyfriend. i also discovered an inner happiness underneath my superficial and cheerful exterior. from time to time i was quiet. now i live only for peter, since what happens to me in the future depends largely on him! i lie in bed at night, after ending my prayers with the words "ich janke air fur all das cute una liebe una schone,"* [* thank you, god, for all that is good and dear and beautiful.] and i'm filled with joy. i think of going into hiding, my health and my whole being as das cute; peter's love (which is still so new and fragile and which neither of us dares to say aloud), the future, happiness and love as das liebe; the world, nature and the tremendous beauty of everything, all that splendor, as das schone. at such moments i don't think about all the misery, but about the beauty that still remains. this is where mother and i differ greatly. her advice in the face of melancholy is: "think about all the suffering in the world and be thankful you're not part of it." my advice is: "go outside, to the country, enjoy the sun and all nature has to offer. go outside and try to recapture the happiness within yourself; think of all the beauty in yourself and in everything around you and be happy." i don't think mother's advice can be right, because what are you supposed to do if you become part of the suffering? you'd be completely lost. on the contrary, beauty remains, even in misfortune. if you just look for it, you discover more and more happiness and regain your balance. a person who's happy will make others happy; a person who has courage and faith will never die in misery! yours, anne m. frank wednesday, march 8, 1944 margot and i have been writing each other notes, just for fun, of course. anne: it's strange, but i can only remember the day after what has happened the night before. for example, i suddenly remembered that mr. dussel was snoring loudly last night. (it's now quarter to three on wednesday af- ternoon and mr. dussel is snoring again, which is why it flashed through my mind, of course.) when i had to use the potty, i deliberately made more noise to get the snoring to stop. margot: which is better, the snoring or the gasping for air? anne: the snoring's better, because it stops when i make noise, without waking the person in question. what i didn't write to margot, but what i'll confess to you, dear kitty, is that i've been dreaming of peter a great deal. the night before last i dreamed i was skating right here in our living room with that little boy from the apollo ice- skating rink; he was with his sister, the girl with the spindly legs who always wore the same blue dress. i introduced myself, overdoing it a bit, and asked him his name. it was peter. in my dream i wondered just how many peters i actually knew! then i dreamed we were standing in peter's room, facing each other beside the stairs. i said something to him; he gave me a kiss, but replied that he didn't love me all that much and that i shouldn't flirt. in a desperate and pleading voice i said, "i'm not flirting, peter!" when i woke up, i was glad peter hasn't said it after all. last night i dreamed we were kissing each other, but peter's cheeks were very disappointing: they weren't as soft as they looked. they were more like father's cheeks -- the cheeks of a man who already shaves. friday, march 10, 1944 my dearest kitty, the proverb "misfortunes never come singly" defi- nitely applies to today. peter just got through saying it. let me tell you all the awful things that have happened and that are still hanging over our heads. first, miep is sick, as a result of henk and aagje's wedding yesterday. she caught cold in the westerkerk, where the service was held. second, mr. kleiman hasn't returned to work since the last time his stomach started bleeding, so bep's been left to hold down the fort alone. third, the police have arrested a man (whose name i won't put in writing). it's terrible not only for him, but for us as well, since he's been supplying us with potatoes, butter and jam. mr. m., as i'll call him, has five children under the age of thirteen, and another on the way. last night we 