don't give a darn about them as people. as far as i'm concerned, they can go jump in a lake. it's different with father. when i see him being partial to margot, approving margot's every action, praising her, hugging her, i feel a gnawing ache inside, because i'm crazy about him. i model myself after father, and there's no one in the world i love more. he doesn't realize that he treats margot differently than he does me: margot just happens to be the smartest, the kindest, the prettiest and the best. but i have a right to be taken seriously too. i've always been the clown and mischief maker of the family; i've always had to pay double for my sins: once with scoldings and then again with my own sense of despair. i'm no longer satisfied with the meaningless affection or the supposedly serious talks. i long for something from father that he's incapable of giving. i'm not jealous of margot; i never have been. i'm not envious of her brains or her beauty. it's just that i'd like to feel that father really loves me, not because i'm his child, but because i'm me, anne. i cling to father because my contempt of mother is growing daily and it's only through him that i'm able to retain the last ounce of family feeling i have left. he doesn't understand that i sometimes need to vent my feelings for mother. he doesn't want to talk about it, and he avoids any discussion involving mother's failings. and yet mother, with all her shortcomings, is tougher for me to deal with. i don't know how i should act. i can't very well confront her with her carelessness, her sarcasm and her hard-heartedness, yet i can't continue to take the blame for everything. i'm the opposite of mother, so of course we clash. i don't mean to judge her; i don't have that right. i'm simply looking at her as a mother. she's not a mother to me -- i have to mother myself. i've cut myself adrift from them. i'm charting my own course, and we'll see where it leads me. i have no choice, because i can picture what a mother and a wife should be and can't seem to find anything of the sort in the woman i'm supposed to call "mother." i tell myself time and again to overlook mother's bad example. i only want to see her good points, and to look inside myself for what's lacking in her. but it doesn't work, and the worst part is that father and mother don't realize their own inadequacies and how much i blame them for letting me down. are there any parents who can make their children completely happy? sometimes i think god is trying to test me, both now and in the future. i'll have to become a good person on my own, without anyone to serve as a model or advise me, but it'll make me stronger in the end. who else but me is ever going to read these letters? who else but me can i turn to for comfort? i'm frequently in need of consolation, i often feel weak, and more often than not, i fail to meet expectations. i know this, and every day i resolve to do better. they aren't consistent in their treatment of me. one day they say that anne's a sensible girl and entitled to know everything, and the next that anne's a silly goose who doesn't know a thing and yet imagines she's learned all she needs to know from books! i'm no longer the baby and spoiled little darling whose every deed can be laughed at. i have my own ideas, plans and ideals, but am unable to articulate them yet. oh well. so much comes into my head at night when i'm alone, or during the day when i'm obliged to put up with people i can't abide or who invariably misinterpret my intentions. that's why i always wind up coming back to my diary -- i start there and end there because kitty's always patient. i promise her that, despite everything, i'll keep going, that i'll find my own way and choke back my tears. i only wish i could see some results or, just once, receive encouragement from someone who loves me. don't condemn me, but think of me as a person who sometimes reaches the bursting point! yours, anne monday, november 9,1942 dearest kitty, yesterday was peter's birthday, his sixteenth. i was upstairs by eight, and peter and i looked at his presents. he received a game of monopoly, a razor and a cigarette lighter. not that he smokes so much, not at all; it just looks so distinguished. the biggest surprise came from mr. van daan, who reported at one that the english had landed in tunis, algiers, casablanca and oran. "this is the beginning of the end," everyone was saying, but churchill, the british prime minister, who must have heard the same thing being repeated in england, declared, "this is not the end. it is not even the beginning of the end. but it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning." do you see the difference? however, there's reason for optimism. stalingrad, the russian city that has been under attack for three months, still hasn't fallen into german hands. in the true spirit of the annex, i should talk to you about food. (i should explain that they're real gluttons up on the top floor.) bread is delivered daily by a very nice baker, a friend of mr. kleiman's. of course, we don't have as much as we did at home, but it's enough. we also purchase ration books on the black market. the price keeps going up; it's already risen from 27 to 33 guilders. and that for mere sheets of printed paper! to provide ourselves with a source of nutrition that will keep, aside from the hundred cans 