childish, but wait till it happens to you! the ack-ack guns make so much noise you can't hear your own voice. mrs. beaverbrook, the fatalist, practically burst into tears and said in a timid little voice, "oh, it's so awful. oh, the guns are so loud!" -- which is another way of saying "i'm so scared." it didn't seem nearly as bad by candlelight as it did in the dark. i was shivering, as if i had a fever, and begged father to relight the candle. he was adamant: there was to be no light. suddenly we heard a burst of machine-gun fire, and that's ten times worse than antiaircraft guns. mother jumped out of bed and, to pim's great annoyance, lit the candle. her resolute answer to his grumbling was, "after all, anne is not an ex- soldier!" and that was the end of that! have i told you any of mrs. van d.'s other fears? i don't think so. to keep you up to date on the latest adventures in the secret annex, i should tell you this as well. one night mrs. van d. thought she heard loud footsteps in the attic, and she was so afraid of burglars, she woke her husband. at that very same moment, the thieves disappeared, and the only sound mr. van d. could hear was the frightened pounding of his fatalistic wife's heart. "oh, putti!" she cried. (putti is mrs. van d.'s pet name for her husband.) "they must have taken all our sausages and dried beans. and what about peter? oh, do you think peter's still safe and sound in his bed?" "i'm sure they haven't stolen peter. stop being such a ninny, and let me get back to sleep!" impossible. mrs. van d. was too scared to sleep. a few nights later the entire van daan family was awakened by ghostly noises. peter went to the attic with a flashlight and -- scurry, scurry -- what do you think he saw running away? a whole slew of enormous rats! once we knew who the thieves were, we let mouschi sleep in the attic and never saw our uninvited guests again. . . at least not at night. a few evenings ago (it was seven-thirty and still light), peter went up to the loft to get some old newspapers. he had to hold on tightly to the trapdoor to climb down the ladder. he put down his hand without looking, and nearly fell off the ladder from shock and pain. without realizing it, he'd put his hand on a large rat, which had bitten him in the arm. by the time he reached us, white as a sheet and with his knees knocking, the blood had soaked through his pajamas. no wonder he was so shaken, since petting a rat isn't much fun, especially when it takes a chunk out of your arm. yours, anne friday, march 12, 1943 dearest kitty, may i introduce: mama frank, the children's advocate! extra butter for the youngsters, the problems facing today's youth -- you name it, and mother defends the younger generation. after a skirmish or two, she always gets her way. one of the jars of pickled tongue is spoiled. a feast for mouschi and boche. you haven't met boche yet, despite the fact that she was here before we went into hiding. she's the warehouse and office cat, who keeps the rats at bay in the storeroom. her odd, political name can easily be explained. for a while the firm gies & co. had two cats: one for the warehouse and one for the attic. their paths crossed from time to time, which invariably resulted in a fight. the warehouse cat was always the aggressor, while the attic cat was ultimately the victor, just as in politics. so the warehouse cat was named the german, or "boche," and the attic cat the englishman, or "tommy." sometime after that they got rid of tommy, but boche is always there to amuse us when we go downstairs. vve've eaten so many brown beans and navy beans that i can't stand to look at them. just thinking about them makes me sick. our evening serving of bread has been canceled. daddy just said that he's not in a very cheerful mood. his eyes look so sad again, the poor man! i can't tear myself away from the book a knock at the door by ina bakker boudier. this family saga is extremely well written, but the parts dealing with war, writers and the emancipation of women aren't very good. to be honest, these subjects don't interest me much. terrible bombing raids on germany. mr. van daan is grouchy. the reason: the cigarette shortage. the debate about whether or not to start eating the canned food ended in our favor. i can't wear any of my shoes, except my ski boots, which are not very practical around the house. a pair of straw thongs that were purchased for 6.50 guilders were worn down to the soles within a week. maybe miep will be able to scrounge up something on the black market. it's time to cut father's hair. pim swears that i do such a good job he'll never go to another barber after the war. if only i didn't nick his ear so often! yours, anne thursday, march 18, 1943 my dearest kitty, turkey's entered the war. great excitement. anxiously awaiting radio reports. friday, march 19, 1943 dearest kitty, in less than an hour, joy was followed by disappoint ment. turkey hasn't entered the war yet. it was only a cabinet minister talking about turkey giving up its neu trality sometime soon. the newspaper vendor in dam square was shouting "turkey on england's side!" and the papers were being snatched out of his hands. this was how we'd heard the encouraging rumor. thousand-guilder notes are being declared invalid. that'll be a blow to the black marketeers and others like them, but even more to 