so he could put an end to it all. i've never gone that far. i should be deeply ashamed of myself, and i am. what's done can't be undone, but at least you can keep it from happening again. i'd like to start all over, and that shouldn't be difficult, now that i have peter. with him supporting me, i know i can do it! i'm not alone anymore. he loves me, i love him, i have my books, my writing and my diary. i'm not all that ugly, or that stupid, i have a sunny disposition, and i want to develop a good character! yes, anne, you knew full well that your letter was unkind and untrue, but you were actually proud of it! i'll take father as my example once again, and i will improve myself. yours, anne m. frank monday, may 8, 1944 dearest kitty, have i ever told you anything about our family? i don't think i have, so let me begin. father was born in frankfurt am main to very wealthy parents: michael frank owned a bank and became a millionaire, and alice stern's parents were prominent and well-to-do. michael frank didn't start out rich; he was a self-made man. in his youth father led the life of a rich man's son. parties every week, balls, banquets, beautiful girls, waltzing, dinners, a huge house, etc. after grandpa died, most of the money was lost, and after the great war and inflation there was nothing left at all. up until the war there were still quite a few rich relatives. so father was extremely well-bred, and he had to laugh yesterday because for the first time in his fifty-five years, he scraped out the frying pan at the table. mother's family wasn't as wealthy, but still fairly well-off, and we've listened openmouthed to stories of private balls, dinners and engagement parties with 250 guests. we're far from rich now, but i've pinned all my hopes on after the war. i can assure you, i'm not so set on a bourgeois life as mother and margot. i'd like to spend a year in paris and london learning the languages and studying art history. compare that with margot, who wants to nurse newborns in palestine. i still have visions of gorgeous dresses and fascinating people. as i've told you many times before, i want to see the world and do all kinds of exciting things, and a little money won't hurt! this morning miep told us about her cousin's engagement party, which she went to on saturday. the cousin's parents are rich, and the groom's are even richer. miep made our mouths water telling us about the food that was served: vegetable soup with meatballs, cheese, rolls with sliced meat, hors d'oeuvres made with eggs and roast beef, rolls with cheese, genoise, wine and cigarettes, and you could eat as much as you wanted. miep drank ten schnapps and smoked three cigarettes -- could this be our temperance advocate? if miep drank all those, i wonder how many her spouse managed to toss down? everyone at the party was a little tipsy, of course. there were also two officers from the homicide squad, who took photographs of the wedding couple. you can see we're never far from miep's thoughts, since she promptly noted their names and addresses in case anything should happen and we needed contacts with good dutch people. our mouths were watering so much. we, who'd had nothing but two spoonfuls of hot cereal for breakfast and were absolutely famished; we, who get nothing but half- cooked spinach (for the vitamins!) and rotten pota- toes day after day; we, who fill our empty stomachs with nothing but boiled lettuce, raw lettuce, spinach, spinach and more spinach. maybe we'll end up being as strong as popeye, though up to now i've seen no sign of it! if miep had taken us along to the party, there wouldn't have been any rolls left over for the other guests. if we'd been there, we'd have snatched up everything in sight, including the furniture. i tell you, we were practically pulling the words right out of her mouth. we were gathered around her as if we'd never in all our lives heard of" delicious food or elegant people! and these are the granddaughters of the distinguished millionaire. the world is a crazy place! yours, anne m. frank tuesday, may 9, 1944 dearest kitty, i've finished my story about ellen, the fairy. i've copied it out on nice notepaper, decorated it with red ink and sewn the pages together. the whole thing looks quite pretty, but i don't know if it's enough of a birthday present. margot and mother have both written poems. mr. kugler came upstairs this afternoon with the news that starting monday, mrs. broks would like to spend two hours in the office every afternoon. just imagine! the office staff won't be able to come upstairs, the potatoes can't be delivered, bep won't get her dinner, we can't go to the bathroom, we won't be able to move and all sorts of other inconveniences! we proposed a variety of ways to get rid of her. mr. van daan thought a good laxative in her coffee might do the trick. "no," mr. kleiman answered, "please don't, or we'll never get her off the can. a roar of laughter. "the can?" mrs. van d. asked. "what does that mean?" an explanation was given. "is it all right to use that word?" she asked in perfect innocence. "just imagine," bep giggled, "there you are shopping at the bijenkorf and you ask the way to the can. they wouldn't even know what you were talking about!" dussel now sits on the "can," to borrow the expression, every day at twelve-thirty on the dot. this afternoon i boldly took a piece of pink paper and wrote: mr. dussel's toilet timetable mornings from 7: 15 to 7:30 a.m. afternoons after 1 p.m. otherwise, only 