much about the open doors or the messy office. early this morning peter knocked at our door to tell us that the front door was wide open and that the projector and mr. kugler's new briefcase had disappeared from the closet. peter was instructed to lock the door. mr. van daan told us his discoveries of the night before, and we were extremely worried. the only explanation is that the burglar must have had a duplicate key, since there were no signs of a forced entry. he must have sneaked in early in the evening, shut the door behind him, hidden himself when he heard mr. van daan, fled with the loot after mr. van daan went upstairs and, in his hurry, not bothered to shut the door. who could have our key? why didn't the burglar go to the warehouse? was it one of our own warehouse employees, and will he turn us in, now that he's heard mr. van daan and maybe even seen him? it's really scary, since we don't know whether the burglar will take it into his head to try and get in again. or was he so startled when he heard someone else in the building that he'll stay away? yours, anne p.s. we'd be delighted if you could hunt up a good detective for us. obviously, there's one condotion: he must be relied upon not to mform on people in hiding. thursday, march 2, 1944 dearest kitty, margot and i were in the attic together today. i can't enjoy being there with her the way i imagine it'd be with peter (or someone else). i know she feels the same about most things as i do! while doing the dishes, bep began talking to mother and mrs. van daan about how discouraged she gets. what help did those two offer her? our tactless mother, especially, only made things go from bad to worse. do you know what her advice was? that she should think about all the other people in the world who are suffering! how can thinking about the misery of others help if you're miserable yourself? i said as much. their response, of course, was that i should stay out of conversations of this sort. the grown-ups are such idiots! as if peter, margot, bep and i didn't all have the same feelings. the only thing that helps is a mother's love, or that of a very, very close friend. but these two mothers don't understand the first thing about us! perhaps mrs. van daan does, a bit more than mother. oh, i wish i could have said something to poor bep, something that i know from my own experience would have helped. but father came between us, pushing me roughly aside. they're all so stupid! i also talked to margot about father and mother, about how nice it could be here if they weren't so aggravating. we'd be able to organize evenings in which everyone could take turns discussing a given subject. but we've already been through all that. it's impossible for me to talk here! mr. van daan goes on the offensive, mother i gets sarcastic and can't say anythina in a normal voice, father doesn't feel like taking part, nor does mr. dussel, and mrs. van d. is attacked so often that she just sits there with a red face, hardly able to put up a fight anymore. and what about us? we aren't allowed to have an opinion! my, my, aren't they progressive! not have an opinion! people can tell you to shut up, but they can't keep you from having an opinion. you can't forbid someone to have an opinion, no matter how young they are! the only thing that would help bep, margot, peter and me would be great love and devotion, which we don't get here. and no one, especially not the idiotic sages around here, is capable of understanding us, since we're more sensitive and much more advanced in our thinking than any of them ever suspect! love, what is love? i don't think you can really put it into words. love is understanding someone, caring for him, sharing his joys and sorrows. this eventually includes physical love. you've shared something, given something away and received something in return, whether or not you're married, whether or not you have a baby. losing your virtue doesn't matter, as long as you know that for as long as you live you'll have someone at your side who understands you, and who doesn't have to be shared with anyone else! yours, anne m. frank at the moment, mother's grouching at me again; she's clearly jealous because i talk to mrs. van daan more than to her. what do i care! i managed to get hold of peter this afternoon, and we talked for at least forty- five minutes. he wanted to tell me something about himself, but didn't find it easy. he finally got it out, though it took a long time. i honestly didn't know whether it was better for me to stay or to go. but i wanted so much to help him! i told him about bep and how tactless our mothers are. he told me that his parents fight constantly, about politics and cigarettes and all kinds of things. as i've told you before, peter's very shy, but not too shy to admit that he'd be perfectly happy not to see his parents for a year or two. "my father isn't as nice as he looks," he said. "but in the matter of the cigarettes, mother's absolutely right." i also told him about my mother. but he came to father's defense. he thought he was a "terrific guy." tonight when i was hanging up my apron after doing the dishes, he called me over and asked me not to say anything downstairs about his parents' having had another argument and not being on speaking terms. i promised, though i'd already told margot. 