more than once the air has been filled with the van daans' admonitions and my saucy replies. father and mother always defend me fiercely. without them i wouldn't be able to jump back into the fray with my usual composure. they keep telling me i should talk less, mind my own business and be more modest, but i seem doomed to failure. if father weren't so patient, i'd have long ago given up hope of ever meeting my parents' quite moderate expectations. if i take a small helping of a vegetable i loathe and eat potatoes instead, the van daans, especially mrs. van daan, can't get over how spoiled i am. "come on, anne, eat some more vegetables," she says. "no, thank you, ma'am," i reply. "the potatoes are more than enough." "vegetables are good for you; your mother says so too. have some more," she insists, until father intervenes and upholds my right to refuse a dish i don't like. then mrs. van d. really flies off the handle: "you should have been at our house, where children were brought up the way they should be. i don't call this a proper upbringing. anne is terribly spoiled. i'd never allow that. if anne were my daughter. . ." this is always how her tirades begin and end: "if anne were my daughter. . ." thank goodness i'm not. but to get back to the subject of raising children, yesterday a silence fell after mrs. van d. finished her little speech. father then replied, "i think anne is very well brought up. at least she's learned not to respond to your interminable sermons. as far as the vegetables are concerned, all i have to say is look who's calling the kettle black." mrs. van d. was soundly defeated. the pot calling the ketde black refers of course to madame herself, since she can't tolerate beans or any kind of cabbage in the evening because they give her "gas." but i could say the same. what a dope, don't you think? in any case, let's hope she stops talking about me. it's so funny to see how quickly mrs. van daan flushes. i don't, and it secredy annoys her no end. yours, anne monday, september 28,1942 dearest kitty, i had to stop yesterday, though i was nowhere near finished. i'm dying to tell you about another one of our clashes, but before i do i'd like to say this: i think it's odd that grown-ups quarrel so easily and so often and about such petty matters. up to now i always thought bickering was just something children did and that they outgrew it. often, of course, there's sometimes a reason to have a real quarrel, but the verbal exchanges that take place here are just plain bickering. i should be used to the fact that these squabbles are daily occurrences, but i'm not and never will be as long as i'm the subject of nearly every discussion. (they refer to these as "discussions" instead of "quarrels," but germans don't know the difference!) they criticize everything, and i mean everything, about me: my behavior, my personality, my manners; every inch of me, from head to toe and back again, is the subject of gossip and debate. harsh words and shouts are constantly being flung at my head, though i'm absolutely not used to it. according to the powers that be, i'm supposed to grin and bear it. but i can't! i have no intention of taking their insults lying down. i'll show them that anne frank wasn't born yesterday. they'll sit up and take notice and keep their big mouths shut when i make them see they ought to attend to their own manners instead of mine. how dare they act that way! it's simply barbaric. i've been astonished, time and again, at such rudeness and most of all. . . at such stupidity (mrs. van daan). but as soon as i've gotten used to the idea, and that shouldn't take long, i'll give them a taste of their own medicine, and then they'll change their tune! am i really as bad-mannered, headstrong, stubborn, pushy, stupid, lazy, etc., etc., as the van daans say i am? no, of course not. i know i have my faults and shortcomings, but they blow them all out of proportion! if you only knew, kitty, how i seethe when they scold and mock me. it won't take long before i explode with pent-up rage. but enough of that. i've bored you long enough with my quarrels, and yet i can't resist adding a highly interesting dinner conversation. somehow we landed on the subject of pim's extreme diffidence. his modesty is a well-known fact, which even the stupidest person wouldn't dream of questioning. all of a sudden mrs. van daan, who feels the need to bring herself into every conversation, remarked, "i'm very modest and retiring too, much more so than my husband!" have you ever heard anything so ridiculous? this sentence clearly illustrates that she's not exactly what you'd call modest! mr. van daan, who felt obliged to explain the "much more so than my husband," answered calmly, "i have no desire to be modest and retiring. in my experience, you get a lot further by being pushy!" and turning to me, he added, "don't be modest and retiring, anne. it will get you nowhere." mother agreed completely with this viewpoint. but, as usual, mrs. van daan had to add her two cents. this time, however, instead of addressing me directly, she turned to my parents and said, "you must have a strange outlook on life to be able to say that to anne. things were different when i was growing up. though they probably haven't changed much since then, except in your modern household!" this was a direct hit at mother's modern child-rearing methods, which she's defended on many occasions. mrs. van daan was so upset her face turned bright red. people who flush easily 