of food we've stored here, we bought three hundred pounds of beans. not just for us, but for the office staff as well. we'd hung the sacks of beans on hooks in the hallway, just inside our secret entrance, but a few seams split under the weight. so we decided to move them to the attic, and peter was entrusted with the heavy lifting. he managed to get five of the six sacks upstairs intact and was busy with the last one when the sack broke and a flood, or rather a hailstorm, of brown beans went flying through the air and down the stairs. since there were about fifty pounds of beans in that sack, it made enough noise to raise the dead. downstairs they were sure the house was falling down around their heads. peter was stunned, but then burst into peals of laughter when he saw me standing at the bottom of the stairs, like an island in a sea of brown, with waves of beans lapping at my ankles. we promptly began picking them up, but beans are so small and slippery that they roll into every conceivable corner and hole. now each time we go upstairs, we bend over and hunt around so we can present mrs. van daan with a handful of beans. i almost forgot to mention that father has recovered from his illness. yours, anne p.s. the radio has just announced that algiers has fallen. morocco, casablanca and oran have been in english hands for several days. we're now waiting for tunis. tuesday, november 10, 1942 dearest kitty, great news! we're planning to take an eighth person into hiding with us! yes, really. we always thought there was enough room and food for one more person, but we were afraid of placing an even greater burden on mr. kugler and mr. kleiman. but since reports of the dreadful things being done to the jews are getting worse by the day, father decided to sound out these two gentlemen, and they thought it was an excellent plan. "it's just as dangerous, whether there are seven or eight," they noted rightly. once this was settled, we sat down and mentally went through our circle of acquaintances, trying to come up with a single person who would blend in well with our extended family. this wasn't difficult. after father had rejected all the van daan relatives, we chose a dentist named alfred dussel. he lives with a charming christian lady who's quite a bit younger than he is. they're probably not married, but that's beside the point. he's known to be quiet and refined, and he seemed, from our superficial acquaintance with him, to be nice. miep knows him as well, so she'll be able to make the necessary arrangements. if he comes, mr. dussel will have to sleep in my room instead of margot, who will have to make do with the folding bed.* [*after dussel arrived, margot slept in her parents' bedroom.] we'll ask him to bring along something to fill cavities with. yours, anne thursday, november 12, 1942 dearest kitty, miep came to tell us that she'd been to see dr. dussel. he asked her the moment she entered the room if she knew of a hiding place and was enormously pleased when miep said she had something in mind. she added "that he'd need to go into hiding as soon as possible, preferably saturday, but he thought this was highly improbable, since he wanted to bring his records up to date, settle his accounts and attend to a couple of patients. miep relayed the message to us this morning. we didn't think it was wise to wait so long. all these preparations require explanations to various people who we feel ought to be kept in the dark. miep went to ask if dr. dussel couldn't manage to come on saturday after all, but he said no, and now he's scheduled to arrive on monday. i think it's odd that he doesn't jump at our proposal. if they pick him up on the street, it won't help either his records or his patients, so why the delay? if you ask me, it's stupid of father to humor him. otherwise, no news. yours, anne tuesday, november 17, 1942 dearest kitty! mr. dussel has arrived. everything went smoothly. miep told him to be at a certain place in front of the post office at 11 a.m., when a man would meet him, and he was at the appointed place at the appointed time. mr. kleiman went up to him, announced that the man he was expecting to meet was unable to come and asked him to drop by the office to see miep. mr. kleiman took a streetcar back to the office while mr. dussel followed on foot. it was eleven-twenty when mr. dussel tapped on the office door. miep asked him to remove his coat, so the yellow star couldn't be seen, and brought him to the private office, where mr. kleiman kept him occupied until the cleaning lady had gone. on the pretext that the private office was needed for something else, miep took mr. dussel upstairs, opened the bookcase and stepped inside, while mr. dussellooked on in amazement. in the meantime, the seven of us had seated ourselves around the dining table to await the latest addition to our family with coffee and cognac. miep first led him into the frank family's room. he immediately recognized our furniture, but had no idea we were upstairs, just above his head. when miep told him, he was so astonished he nearly fainted. thank goodness she didn't leave him in suspense any longer, but brought him upstairs. mr. dussel sank into a chair and stared at us in dumbstruck silence, as though he thought he could read the truth on our faces. then he stuttered, "aber . . . but are you nicht in belgium? the officer, the auto, they were not coming? your 