quarrels were just as much my business as his, and yet i don't dare bring it up anymore, because i'm afraid it makes him uncomfortable. i wouldn't want to intrude, not for all the money in the world. i can tell by peter's face that he ponders things just as deeply as i do. last night i was annoyed when mrs. van d. scoffed, "the thinker!" peter flushed and looked embarrassed, and i nearly blew my top. why don't these people keep their mouths shut? you can't imagine what it's like to have to stand on the sidelines and see how lonely he is, without being able to do anything. i can imagine, as if i were in his place, how despondent he must sometimes feel at the quarrels. and about love. poor peter, he needs to be loved so much! it sounded so cold when he said he didn't need any friends. oh, he's so wrong! i don't think he means it. he clings to his masculinity, his solitude and his feigned indif- ference so he can maintain his role, so he'll never, ever have to show his feelings. poor peter, how long can he keep it up? won't he explode from this superhuman effort? oh, peter, if only i could help you, if only you would let me! together we could banish our loneliness, yours and mine! i've been doing a great deal of thinking, but not saying much. i'm happy when i see him, and happier still if the sun shines when we're together. i washed my hair yesterday, and because i knew he was next door, i was very rambunctious. i couldn't help it; the more quiet and serious i am on the inside, the noisier i get on the outside! who will be the first to discover the chink in my armor? it's just as well that the van daans don't have a daughter. my conquest could never be so challenging, so beautiful and so nice with someone of the same sex! yours, anne m. frank ps. you know i'm always honest with you, so i think i should tell you that i live from one encounter to the next. i keep hoping to discover that he's dying to see me, and i'm in raptures when i notice his bashful attempts. i think he'd like to be able to express himself as easily as i do; little does he know it's his awkwardness that i find so touching. tuesday, march 7,1944 dearest kitty, when i think back to my life in 1942, it all seems so unreal. the anne frank who enjoyed that heavenly existence was completely different from the one who has grown wise within these walls. yes, it was heavenly. five admirers on every street corner, twenty or so friends, the favorite of most of my teachers, spoiled rotten by father and mother, bags full of candy and a big allowance. what more could anyone ask for? you're probably wondering how i could have charmed all those people. peter says it s ecause i m "attractive," but that isn't it entirely. the teachers were amused and entertained by my clever answers, my witty remarks, my smthng face and my critical mind. that's all i was: a terrible flirt, coquettish and amusing. i had a few plus points, which kept me in everybody's good graces: i was hardworking, honest and generous. i would never have refused anyone who wanted to peek at my answers, i was magnanimous with my candy, and i wasn't stuck-up. would all that admiration eventually have made me overconfident? it's a good thing that, at the height of my glory, i was suddenly plunged into reality. it took me more than a year to get used to doing without admiration. how did they see me at school? as the class comedian, the eternal ringleader, never in a bad mood, never a crybaby. was it any wonder that everyone wanted to bicycle to school with me or do me little favors? i look back at that anne frank as a pleasant, amusing, but superficial girl, who has nothing to do with me. what did peter say about me? "whenever i saw you, you were surrounded by a flock of girls and at least two boys, you were always laughing, and you were always the center of attention!" he was right. what's remained of that anne frank? oh, i haven't forgotten how to laugh or toss off a remark, i'm just as good, if not better, at raking people over the coals, and i can still flirt and be amusing, if i want to be . . . but there's the catch. i'd like to live that seemingly carefree and happy life for an evening, a few days, a week. at the end of that week i'd be exhausted, and would be grateful to the first person to talk to me about something meaningful. i want friends, not admirers. peo- ple who respect me for my character and my deeds, not my flattering smile. the circle around me would be much smaller, but what does that matter, as long as they're sincere? in spite of everything, i wasn't altogether happy in 1942; i often felt i'd been deserted, but because i was on the go all day long, i didn't think about it. i enjoyed myself as much as i could, trying consciously or unconsciously to fill the void with jokes. looking back, i realize that this period of my life has irrevocably come to a close; my happy-go-lucky, carefree schooldays are gone forever. i don't even miss them. i've outgrown them. i can no longer just kid around, since my serious side is always there. i see my life up to new year's 1944 as if i were looking through a powerful magnifying glass. when i was at home, my life was filled with sunshine. then, in the middle of 1942, everything changed overnight. the quarrels, the accusations -- i couldn't 