peter!" i've been thinking of him constantly, and all day long i've been repeating to myself, "oh, petel, my darling, darling petel . . ." where can i find help? i simply have to go on living and praying to god that, if we ever get out of here, peter's path will cross mine and he'll gaze into my eyes, read the love in them and say, "oh, anne, if i'd only known, i'd have come to you long ago." once when father and i were talking about sex, he said i was too young to understand that kind of desire. but i thought i did understand it, and now i'm sure i do. nothing is as dear to me now as my darling petel! i saw my face in the mirror, and it looked so different. my eyes were clear and deep, my cheeks were rosy, which they hadn't been in weeks, my mouth was much softer. i looked happy, and yet there was something so sad in my expression that the smile immediately faded from my lips. i'm not happy, since i know petel's not thinking of me, and yet i can still feel his beautiful eyes gazing at me and his cool, soft cheek against mine. . . oh, petel, petel, how am i ever going to free myself from your image? wouldn't anyone who took your place be a poor substitute? i love you, with a love so great that it simply couldn't keep growing inside my heart, but had to leap out and reveal itself in all its magnitude. a week ago, even a day ago, if you'd asked me, "which of your friends do you think you'd be most likely to marry?" i'd have answered, "sally, since he makes me feel good, peaceful and safe!" but now i'd cry, "petel, because i love him with all my heart and all my soul. i surrender myself completely!" except for that one thing: he may touch my face, but that's as far as it goes. this morning i imagined i was in the front attic with petel, sitting on the floor by the windows, and after talking for a while, we both began to cry. moments later i felt his mouth and his wonderful cheek! oh, petel, come to me. think of me, my dearest petel! wednesday, january 12, 1944 dearest kitty, bep's been back for the last two weeks, though her sister won't be allowed back at school until next week. bep herself spent two days in bed with a bad cold. miep and jan were also out for two days, with upset stomachs. i'm currently going through a dance and ballet craze and am diligently practicing my dance steps every evening. i've made an ultramodern dance costume out of a lacy lavender slip belonging to momsy. bias tape is threaded through the top and tied just above the bust. a pink corded ribbon completes the ensemble. i tried to turn my tennis shoes into ballet slippers, but with no success. my stiff limbs are well on the way to becoming as limber as they used to be. a terrific exercise is to sit on the floor, place a heel in each hand and raise both legs in the air. i have to sit on a cushion, because otherwise my poor backside really takes a beating. everyone here is reading a book called a cloudless morning. mother thought it was extremely good because it describes a number of adolescent problems. i thought to myself, a bit ironically, "why don't you take more interest in your own adolescents first!" i think mother believes that margot and i have a better relationship with our parents than anyone in the whole wide world, and that no mother is more involved in the lives of her children than she is. she must have my sister in mind, since i don't believe margot has the same problems and thoughts as i do. far be it from me to point out to mother that one of her daughters is not at all what she imagines. she'd be completely bewildered, and anyway, she'd never be able to change; i'd like to spare her that grief, especially since i know that everything would remain the same. mother does sense that margot loves her much more than i do, but she thinks i'm just going through a phase. margot's gotten much nicer. she seems a lot different than she used to be. she's not nearly as catty these days and is becoming a real friend. she no longer thinks of me as a litde kid who doesn't count. it's funny, but i can sometimes see myself as others see me. i take a leisurely look at the person called "anne frank" and browse through the pages of her life as though she were a stranger. before i came here, when i didn't think about things as much as i do now, i occasionally had the feeling that i didn't belong to momsy, pim and margot and that i would always be an outsider. i sometimes went around for six months at a time pretending i was an orphan. then i'd chastise myself for playing the victim, when really, i'd always been so fortunate. after that i'd force myself to be friendly for a while. every morning when i heard footsteps on the stairs, i hoped it would be mother coming to say good morning. i'd greet her warmly, because i honesly did look forward to her affectionate glance. but then she'd snap at me for having made some comment or other (and i'd go off to school feeling completely discouraged. on the way home i'd make excuses for her, telling myself that she had so many worries. i'd arrive home in high spirits, chatting nineteen to the dozen, until the events of the morning would repeat themselves and i'd leave the room with my schoolbag in my hand and a pensive look on my 