brought me a puzzle, aunt stephanie a darling brooch and aunt leny a terrific book: daisy goes to the mountains. this morning i lay in the bathtub thinking how wonderful it would be if i had a dog like rin tin tin. i'd call him rin tin tin too, and i'd take him to school with me, where he could stay in the janitor's room or by the bicycle racks when the weather was good. monday, june 15, 1942 i had my birthday party on sunday afternoon. the rin tin tin movie was a big hit with my classmates. i got two brooches, a bookmark and two books. i'll start by saying a few things about my school and my class, beginning with the students. betty bloemendaal looks kind of poor, and i think she probably is. she lives on some obscure street in west amsterdam, and none of us know where it is. she does very well at school, but that's because she works so hard, not because she's so smart. she's pretty quiet. jacqueline van maarsen is supposedly my best friend, but i've never had a real friend. at first i thought jacque would be one, but i was badly mistaken. d.q.* [* initials have been assigned at random to those persons who prefer to remain anonymous.] is a very nervous girl who's always forgetting things, so the teachers keep assigning her extra homework as punishment. she's very kind, especially to g.z. e.s. talks so much it isn't funny. she's always touching your hair or fiddling with your buttons when she asks you something. they say she can't stand me, but i don't care, since i don't like her much either. henny mets is a nice girl with a cheerful disposition, except that she talks in a loud voice and is really childish when we're playing outdoors. unfortunately, henny has a girlfriend named beppy who's a bad influence on her because she's dirty and vulgar. j.r. - i could write a whole book about her. j. is a detestable, sneaky, stuck-up, two-faced gossip who thinks she's so grown-up. she's really got jacque under her spell, and that's a shame. j. is easily offended, bursts into tears at the slightest thing and, to top it all off, is a terrible show-off. miss j. always has to be right. she's very rich, and has a closet full of the most adorable dresses that are way too old for her. she thinks she's gorgeous, but she's not. j. and i can't stand each other. ilse wagner is a nice girl with a cheerful disposition, but she's extremely finicky and can spend hours moaning and groaning about something. ilse likes me a lot. she's very smart, but lazy. hanneli goslar, or lies as she's called at school, is a bit on the strange side. she's usually shy -- outspoken at horne, but reserved around other people. she blabs whatever you tell her to her mother. but she says what she thinks, and lately i've corne to appreciate her a great deal. nannie van praag-sigaar is small, funny and sensible. i think she's nice. she's pretty smart. there isn't much else you can say about nannie. eefje de jong is, in my opinion, terrific. though she's only twelve, she's quite the lady. she acts as if i were a baby. she's also very helpful, and i like her. g.z. is the prettiest girl in our class. she has a nice face, but is kind of dumb. i think they're going to hold her back a year, but of course i haven't told her that. comment added by anne at a later date: to my areat surprise, g.z. wasn't held back a year after all. and sitting next to g.z. is the last of us twelve girls, me. there's a lot to be said about the boys, or maybe not so much after all. maurice coster is one of my many admirers, but pretty much of a pest. sallie springer has a filthy mind, and rumor has it that he's gone all the way. still, i think he's terrific, because he's very funny. emiel bonewit is g.z.'s admirer, but she doesn't care. he's pretty boring. rob cohen used to be in love with me too, but i can't stand him anymore. he's an obnoxious, two-faced, lying, sniveling little goof who has an awfully high opinion of himself. max van de velde is a farm boy from medemblik, but eminently suitable, as margot would say. herman koopman also has a filthy mind, just like jopie de beer, who's a terrible flirt and absolutely girl-crazy. leo blom is jopie de beer's best friend, but has been ruined by his dirty mind. albert de mesquita came from the montessori school and skipped a grade. he's really smart. leo slager came from the same school, but isn't as smart. ru stoppelmon is a short, goofy boy from almelo who transferred to this school in the middle of the year. c.n. does whatever he's not supposed to. jacques kocernoot sits behind us, next to c., and we (g. and i) laugh ourselves silly. harry schaap is the most decent boy in our class. he's nice. werner joseph is nice too, but all the changes taking place lately have made him too quiet, so he seems boring. sam salomon is one of those tough guys from across the tracks. a real brat. (admirer!) appie riem is pretty orthodox, but a brat too. saturday, june 20,1942 writing in a diary is a really strange experience for someone like me. not only because i've never written anything before, but also because it seems to me that later on neither i nor anyone else will be interested in the musings of a thirteen-year-old schoolgirl. oh well, it doesn't matter. i feel like writing, and i have an even greater need to get all kinds of things off my chest. "paper has more patience than people." i thought of this saying on one of 