on our landing, right in front of the bookcase. was that because the police thought it looked so suspicious or because they simply forgot? was anyone going to come back and turn it off? we found our tongues again. there were no longer any people inside the building, but perhaps someone was standing guard outside. we then did three things: tried to guess what was going on, trembled with fear and went to the bathroom. since the buckets were in the attic, all we had was peter's metal wastepaper basket. mr. van daan went first, then father, but mother was too embarrassed. father brought the waste- basket to the next room, where margot, mrs. van daan and i gratefully made use of it. mother finally gave in. there was a great demand for paper, and luckily i had some in my pocket. the wastebasket stank, everything went on in a whisper, and we were exhausted. it was midnight. "lie down on the floor and go to sleep!" margot and i were each given a pillow and a blanket. margot lay down near the food cupboard, and i made my bed between the table legs. the smell wasn't quite so bad when you were lying on the floor, but mrs. van daan quietly went and got some powdered bleach and draped a dish towel over the potty as a further precaution. talk, whispers, fear, stench, farting and people continually going to the bathroom; try sleeping through that! by two-thirty, however, i was so tired i dozed off and didn't hear a thing until three-thirty. i woke up when mrs. van d. lay her head on my feet. "for heaven's sake, give me something to put on!" i said. i was handed some clothes, but don't ask what: a pair of wool slacks over my pajamas, a red sweater and a black skirt, white understockings and tattered kneesocks. mrs. van d. sat back down on the chair, and mr. van d. lay down with his head on my feet. from three- thirty onward i was engrossed in thought, and still shiver- ing so much that mr. van daan couldn't sleep. i was preparing myself for the return of the police. we'd tell them we were in hiding; if they were good people, we'd be safe, and if they were nazi sympathizers, we could try to bribe them! "we should hide the radio!" moaned mrs. van d. "sure, in the stove," answered mr. van d. "if they find us, they might as well find the radio!" "then they'll also find anne's diary," added father. "so burn it," suggested the most terrified of the group. this and the police rattling on the bookcase were the moments when i was most afraid. oh, not my diary; if my diary goes, i go too! thank goodness father didn't say anything more. there's no point in recounting all the conversations; so much was said. i comforted mrs. van daan, who was very frightened. we talked about escaping, being interrogated by the gestapo, phoning mr. kleiman and being courageous. "we must behave like soldiers, mrs. van daan. if our time has come, well then, it'll be for queen and country, for freedom, truth and justice, as they're always telling us on the radio. the only bad thing is that we'll drag the others down with us!" after an hour mr. van daan switched places with his wife again, and father came and sat beside me. the men smoked one cigarette after another, an occasional sigh was heard, somebody made another trip to the potty, and then everything began allover again. four o'clock, five, five-thirty. i went and sat with peter by his window and listened, so close we could feel each other's bodies trembling; we spoke a word or two from time to time and listened intently. next door they took down the blackout screen. they made a list of everything they were planning to tell mr. kleiman over the phone, because they intended to call him at seven and ask him to send someone over. they were taking a big chance, since the police guard at the door or in the warehouse might hear them calling, but there was an even greater risk that the police would return. i'm enclosing their list, but for the sake of clarity, i'll copy it here. buralary: police in building, up to bookcase, but no farther. burglars apparently interrupted, forced warehouse door, fled through garden. main entrance bolted; kugler must have left through second door. typewriter and adding machine safe in black chest in private office. miep's or bep's laundry in washtub in kitchen. only bep or kugler have key to second door; lock may be broken. try to warn jan and get key, look around office; also feed cat. for the rest, everything went according to plan. mr. kleiman was phoned, the poles were removed from the doors, the typewriter was put back in the chest. then we all sat around the table again and waited for either jan or the police. peter had dropped off to sleep and mr. van daan anne frank and i were lying on the floor when we heard loud footsteps below. i got up quietly. "it's jan!" "no, no, it's the police!" they all said. there was a knocking at our bookcase. miep whis- tled. this was too much for mrs. van daan, who sank limply in her chair, white as a sheet. if the tension had lasted another minute, she would have fainted. jan and miep came in and were met with a delightful scene. the table alone would have been worth a photograph: a copy of cinema &.. theater, opened to a page of dancing girls and smeared with jam and pectin, which we'd been taking to combat the diarrhea, two jam jars, half a bread roll, a quarter of a bread roll, pectin, a mirror, a comb, matches, ashes, cigarettes, tobacco, an ashtray, books, a pair of underpants, a flashlight, mrs. 