disappointment to you. you already know all there is to know in theory. but in practice? that's another story!" can you imagine how i felt? i astonished myself by calmly replying, "you may think i haven't been raised properly, but many people would disagree!" they apparently believe that good child-rearing includes trying to pit me against my parents, since that's all they ever do. and not telling a girl my age about grown-up subjects is fine. we can all see what happens when. people are raised that way. at that moment i could have slapped them both for poking fun at me. i was beside myself with rage, and if i only knew how much longer we had to put up with each other's company, i'd start counting the days. mrs. van daan's a fine one to talk! she sets an example all right -- a bad one! she's known to be exceedingly pushy, egotistical, cunning, calculating and perpetually dissatisfied. add to that, vanity and coquettishness and there's no question about it: she's a thoroughly despicable person. i could write an entire book about madame van daan, and who knows, maybe someday i will. anyone can put on a charming exterior when they want to. mrs. van d. is friendly to strangers, especially men, so it's easy to make a mistake when you first get to know her. mother thinks that mrs. van d. is too stupid for words, margot that she's too unimportant, pim that she's too ugly (literally and figuratively!), and after long observation (i'm never prejudiced at the beginning), i've come to the conclusion that she's all three of the above, and lots more besides. she has so many bad traits, why should i single out just one of them? yours, anne p.s. will the reader please take into consideration that this story was written before the writer's fury had cooled? tuesday, august 3, 1943 dearest kitty, things are going well on the political front. italy has banned the fascist party. the people are fighting the fascists in many places -- even the army has joined the fight. how can a country like that continue to wage war against england? our beautiful radio was taken away last week. dussel was very angry at mr. kugler for turning it in on the appointed day. dussel is slipping lower and lower in my estimation, and he's already below zero. hatever he says about politics, history, geography or ything else is so ridiculous that i hardly dare repeat it: hitler will fade from history; the harbor in rotterdam is bigger than the one in hamburg; the english are idiots for not taking the opportunity to bomb italy to smithereens; etc., etc. we just had a third air raid. i decided to grit my teeth and practice being courageous. mrs. van daan, the one who always said "let them fall" and "better to end with a bang than not to end at all," is the most cowardly one among us. she was shaking like a leaf this morning and even burst into tears. she was comforted by her husband, with whom she recently declared a truce after a week of squabbling; i nearly got sentimental at the sight. mouschi has now proved, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that having a cat has disadvantages as well as advantages. the whole house is crawling with fleas, and it's getting worse each day. mr. kleiman sprinkled yellow powder in every nook and cranny, but the fleas haven't taken the slightest notice. it's making us all very jittery; we're forever imagining a bite on our arms and legs or other parts of our bodies, so we leap up and do a few exercises, since it gives us an excuse to take a better look at our arms or necks. but now we're paying the price for having had so little physical exercise; we're so stiff we can hardly turn our heads. the real calisthenics fell by the wayside long ago. yours, anne wednesday, august 4,1943 dearest kitty, now that we've been in hiding for a little over a year, you know a great deal about our lives. still, i can't possibly tell you everything, since it's all so different compared to ordinary times and ordinary people. nevertheless, to give you a closer look into our lives, from time to time i'll describe part of an ordinary day. i'll start with the evening and night. nine in the evening. bedtime always begins in the annex with an enormous hustle and bustle. chairs are shifted, beds pulled out, blankets unfolded -- nothing stays where it is during the daytime. i sleep on a small divan, which is only five feet long, so we have to add a few chairs to make it longer. comforter, sheets, pillows, blankets: everything has to be removed from dussel' s bed, where it's kept during the day. in the next room there's a terrible creaking: that's margot's folding bed being set up. more blankets and pillows, anything to make the wooden slats a bit more comfortable. upstairs it sounds like thunder, but it's only mrs. van d.'s bed being shoved against the window so that her majesty, arrayed in her pink bed jacket, can sniff the night air through her delicate little nostrils. nine o'clock. after peter's finished, it's my turn for the bathroom. i wash myself from head to toe, and more often than not i find a tiny flea floating in the sink (only during the hot months, weeks or days). i brush my teeth, curl my hair, manicure my nails and dab peroxide on my upper lip to bleach the black hairs -- all this in less than half an hour. nine-thirty. i throw on my bathrobe. with soap in one hand, and potty, hairpins, panties, curlers and a wad of cotton in the other, i hurry out of the bathroom. the next in line invariably calls me back to remove the gracefully curved but unsightly hairs that 