holding. "oh, but these are fine," he said, and added, as i took the pan from him, "my compliments!" as he said this, he gave me such a warm, tender look that i started glowing inside. i could tell he wanted to please me, but since he couldn't make a long complimentary speech, he said everything with his eyes. i understood him so well and was very grateful. it still makes me happy to think back to those words and that look! when i went downstairs, mother said she needed more potatoes, this time for dinner, so i volunteered to go back up. when i entered peter's room, i apologized for disturbing him again. as i was going up the stairs, he stood up, went over to stand between the stairs and the wall, grabbed my arm and tried to stop me. "i'll go," he said. "i have to go upstairs anyway." i replied that it wasn't really necessary, that i didn't have to get only the small ones this time. convinced, he let go of my arm. on my way back, he opened the trapdoor and once again took the pan from me. standing by the door, i asked, "what are you working on?" "french," he replied. i asked if i could take a look at his lessons. then i went to wash my hands and sat down across from him on the divan. after i'd explained some french to him, we began to talk. he told me that after the war he wanted to go to the dutch east indies and live on a rubber plantation. he talked about his life at home, the black market and how he felt like a worthless bum. i told him he had a big inferiority complex. he talked about the war, saying that russia and england were bound to go to war against each other, and about the jews. he said life would have been much easier if he'd been a christian or could become one after the war. i asked if he wanted to be baptized, but that wasn't what he meant either. he said he'd never be able to feel like a christian, but that after the war he'd make sure nobody would know he was jewish. i felt a momentary pang. it's such a shame he still has a touch of dishonesty in him. peter added, "the jews have been and always will be the chosen people!" i answered, "just this once, i hope they'll be chosen for something good!" but we went on chatting very pleasantly, about father, about judging human character and all sorts of things, so many that i can't even remember them all. i left at a quarter past five, because bep had arrived. that evening he said something else i thought was nice. we were talking about the picture of a movie star i'd once given him, which has been hanging in his room for at least a year and a half. he liked it so much that i offered to give him a few more. "no," he replied, "i'd rather keep the one i've got. i look at it every day, and the people in it have become my friends." i now have a better understanding of why he always hugs mouschi so tightly. he obviously needs affection too. i forgot to mention something else he was talking about. he said, "no, i'm not afraid, except when it comes to things about myself, but i'm working on that." peter has a huge inferiority complex. for example, he always thinks he's so stupid and we're so smart. when i help him with french, he thanks me a thousand times. one of these days i'm going to say, "oh, cut it out! you're much better at english and geography!" anne frank thursday, february 17, 1944 dear kitty, i was upstairs this morning, since i promised mrs. van d. i'd read her some of my stories. i began with "eva's dream," which she liked a lot, and then i read a few passages from "the secret annex," which had her in stitches. peter also listened for a while (just the last part) and asked if i'd come to his room sometime to read more. i decided i had to take a chance right then and there, so i got my notebook and let him read that bit where cady and hans talk about god. i can't really tell what kind of impression it made on him. he said something i don't quite remember, not about whether it was good, but about the idea behind it. i told him i just wanted him to see that i didn't write only amusing things. he nodded, and i left the room. we'll see if i hear anything more! yours, anne frank friday, february 18, 1944 my dearest kitty, whenever i go upstairs, it's always so i can see "him." now that i have something to look forward to, my life here has improved greatly. at least the object of my friendship is always here, and i don't have to be afraid of rivals (except for margot). don't think i'm in love, because i'm not, but i do have the feeling that something beautiful is going to develop between peter and me, a kind of friendship and a feeling of trust. i go see him whenever i get the chance, and it's not the way it used to be, when he didn't know what to make of me. on the contrary, he's still talking away as i'm heading out the door. mother doesn't like me going upstairs. she always says i'm bothering peter and that i should leave him alone. honestly, can't she credit me with some intuition? she always looks at me so oddly when i go to peter's room. when i come down again, she asks me where i've been. it's terrible, but i'm beginning to hate her! yours, anne m. frank saturday, february 19, 1944 dearest 