we'll both be stronger because of it! yours, anne m. frank p.s. we were up at six yesterday morning, because the whole family heard the sounds of a break-in again. it must have been one of our neighbors who was the victim this time. when we checked at seven o'clock, our doors were still shut tight, thank goodness! tuesday, april 18,1944 dearest kitty, everything's fine here. last night the carpenter came again to put some sheets of iron over the door panels. father just got through saying he definitely expects large-scale operations in russia and italy, as well as in the west, before may 20; the longer the war lasts, the harder it is to imagine being liberated from this place. yesterday peter and i finally got around to having the talk we've been postponing for the last ten days. i told him all about girls, without hesitating to discuss the most intimate matters. i found it rather amusing that he thought the opening in a woman's body was simply left out of illustrations. he couldn't imagine that it was actually located between a woman's legs. the evening ended with a mutual kiss, near the mouth. it's really a lovely feeling! i might take my "favorite quotes notebook" up with me sometime so peter and i can go more deeply into matters. i don't think lying in each other's arms day in and day out is very satisfying, and i hope he feels the same. after our mild winter we've been having a beautiful spring. april is glorious, not too hot and not too cold, with occasional light showers. our chestnut tree is in leaf, and here and there you can already see a few small blossoms. bep presented us saturday with four bouquets of flowers: three bouquets of daffodils, and one bouquet of grape hyacinths for me. mr. kugler is supplying us with more and more newspapers. it's time to do my algebra, kitty. bye. yours, anne m. frank wednesday, april 19, 1944 dearest darling, (that's the title of a movie with dorit kreysler, ida wust and harald paulsen!) what could be nicer than sitting before an open window, enjoying nature, listening to the birds sing, feeling the sun on your cheeks and holding a darling boy in your arms? i feel so peaceful and safe with his arm around me, knowing he's near and yet not having to speak; how can this be bad when it does me so much good? oh, if only we were never disturbed again, not even by mouschi. yours, anne m. frank friday, april 21,1944 my dearest kitty, i stayed in bed yesterday with a sore throat, but since i was already bored the very first afternoon and didn't have a fever, i got up today. my sore throat has nearly "verschwunden"* [* disappeared]. yesterday, as you've probably already discovered, was our fiihrer's fifty-fifth birthday. today is the eighteenth birthday of her royal highness princess elizabeth of york. the bbc reported that she hasn't yet been declared of age, though royal children usually are. we've been wondering which prince they'll marry this beauty off to, but can't think of a suitable candidate; perhaps her sister, princess margaret rose, can have crown prince baudouin of belgium! here we've been going from one disaster to the next. no sooner have the outside doors been reinforced than van maaren rears his head again. in all likelihood he's the one who stole the potato flour, and now he's trying to pin the blame on bep. not surprisingly, the annex is once again in an uproar. bep is beside herself with rage. perhaps mr. kugler will finally have this shady character tailed. the appraiser from beethovenstraat was here this morning. he offered us 400 guilders for our chest; in our opinion, the other estimates are also too low. i want to ask the magazine the prince if they'll take one of my fairy tales, under a pseudonym, of course. but up to now all my fairy tales have been too long, so i don't think i have much of a chance. until the next time, darling. yours, anne m. frank tuesday, april 25, 1944 dearest kitty, for the last ten days dussel hasn't been on speaking terms with mr. van daan, and all because of the new security measures since the break-in. one of these was that he's no longer allowed to go downstairs in the evenings. peter and mr. van daan make the last round every night at nine-thirty, and after that no one may go downstairs. we can't flush the toilet anymore after eight at night or after eight in the morning. the windows may be opened only in the morning when the lights go on in mr. kugler's office, and they can no longer be propped open with a stick at night. this last measure is the reason for dussel's sulking. he claims that mr. van daan bawled him out, but he has only himself to blame. he says he'd rather live without food than without air, and that they simply must figure out a way to keep the windows open. "i'll have to speak to mr. kugler about this," he said to me. i replied that we never discussed matters of this sort with mr. kugler, only within the group. "everything's always happening behind my back. i'll have to talk to your father about that." he's also not allowed to sit in mr. kugler's office anymore on saturday afternoons or sundays, because the manager of keg's might hear him if he happens to be next door. dussel promptly went and sat there anyway. mr. van daan was furious, and father went downstairs to talk to dussel, who came up with some flimsy excuse, but even father didn't fall for it this time. now father's keep- ing his dealings with dussel to a minimum because dussel insulted him. not one of us knows what he said, but it must have been pretty awful. and to 