us up again. in the eyes of the world, we're doomed, but if, after all this suffering, there are still jews left, the jewish people will be held up as an example. who knows, maybe our religion will teach the world and all the people in it about goodness, and that's the reason, the only reason, we have to suffer. we can never be just dutch, or just english, or whatever, we will always be jews as well. and we'll have to keep on being jews, but then, we'll want to be. be brave! let's remember our duty and perform it without complaint. there will be a way out. god has never deserted our people. through the ages jews have had to suffer, but through the ages they've gone on living, and the centuries of suffering have only made them stronger. the weak shall fall and the strong shall survive and not be defeated! that night i really thought i was going to die. i waited for the police and i was ready for death, like a soldier on a battlefield. i'd gladly have given my life for my country. but now, now that i've been spared, my first wish after the war is to become a dutch citizen. i love the dutch, i love this country, i love the language, and i want to work here. and even if i have to write to the queen herself, i won't give up until i've reached my goal! i'm becoming more and more independent of my parents. young as i am, i face life with more courage and have a better and truer sense of justice than mother. i know what i want, i have a goal, i have opinions, a religion and love. if only i can be myself, i'll be satisfied. i know that i'm a woman, a woman with inner strength and a great deal of courage! if god lets me live, i'll achieve more than mother ever did, i'll make my voice heard, i'll go out into the world and work for mankind! i now know that courage and happiness are needed first! yours, anne m. frank friday, april 14, 1944 dear kitty, everyone here is still very tense. pim has nearly reached the bothng point; mrs. van d. is lying in bed with a cold, grumbling; mr. van d. is growing pale without his cigarettes; dussel, who's having to give up many of his comforts, is carping at everyone; etc., etc. we seem to have run out of luck lately. the toilet's leaking, and the faucet's stuck. thanks to our many connections, we'll soon be able to get these repaired. i'm occasionally sentimental, as you know, but from time to time i have reason to be: when peter and i are sitting close together on a hard wooden crate among the junk and dust, our arms around each other's shoulders, peter toying with a lock of my hair; when the birds outside are trilling their songs, when the trees are in bud, when the sun beckons and the sky is so blue--oh, that's when i wish for so much! all i see around me are dissatisfied and grumpy faces, all i hear are sighs and stifled complaints. you'd think our lives had taken a sudden turn for the worse. honestly, things are only as bad as you make them. here in the annex no one even bothers to set a good example. we each have to figure out how to get the better of our own moods! every day you hear, "if only it were all over!" work, love, courage and hope, make me good and help me cope! i really believe, kit, that i'm a little nutty today, and i don't know why. my writing's all mixed up, i'm jump- ing from one thing to another, and sometimes i seriously doubt whether anyone will ever be interested in this drivel. they'll probably call it "the musings of an ugly duckling." my diaries certainly won't be of much use to mr. bolkestein or mr. gerbrandy.* [* gerrit bolkestein was the minister of education and pieter gerbrandy was the prime minister of the dutch government in exile in london. see anne's letter of march 29, 1944.] yours, anne m. frank saturday, april 15, 1944 dearest kitty, "there's just one bad thing after another. when will it all end?" you can sure say that again. guess what's happened now? peter forgot to unbolt the front door. as a result, mr. kugler and the warehouse employees couldn't get in. he went to keg's, smashed in our office kitchen window and got in that way. the windows in the annex were open, and the keg people saw that too. what must they be thinking? and van maaren? mr. kugler's furious. we accuse him of not doing anything to reinforce the doors, and then we do a stupid thing like this! peter's extremely upset. at the table, mother said she felt more sorry for peter than for anyone else, and he nearly began to cry. we're equally to blame, since we usually ask him every day if he's unbolted the door, and so does mr. van daan. maybe i can go comfort him later on. i want to help him so much! here are the latest news bulletins about life in the secret annex over the last few weeks: a week ago saturday, boche suddenly got sick. he sat quite still and started drooling. miep immediately picked him up, rolled him in a towel, tucked him in her shopping bag and brought him to the dog-and-cat clinic. boche had some kind of intestinal problem, so the vet gave him medicine. peter gave it to him a few times, but boche soon made himself scarce. i'll bet he was out courting his sweetheart. but now his nose is swollen and he meows whenever you pick him up-he was probably trying to steal food and somebody smacked him. mouschi lost her voice for 