a few days. just when we decided she had to be taken to the vet too, she started getting better. we now leave the attic window open a crack every night. peter and i often sit up there in the evening. thanks to rubber cement and oil paint, our toilet ; could quickly be repaired. the broken faucet has been replaced. luckily, mr. kleiman is feeling better. he's going to see a specialist soon. we can only hope he won't need an operation. this month we received eight tation books. unfortunately, for the next two weeks beans have been substituted for oatmeal or groats. our latest delicacy is piccalilli. if you're out of luck, all you get is a jar full of cucumber and mustard sauce. vegetables are hard to come by. there's only lettuce, lettuce and more lettuce. our meals consist entirely of potatoes and imitation gravy. the russians are in possession of more than half the crimea. the british aren't advancing beyond cassino. we'll have to count on the western wall. there have been a lot of unbelievably heavy air raids. the registry of births, deaths and marriages in the hague was bombed. all dutch people will be issued new ration registration cards. enough for today. yours, anne m. frank sunday, april 16, 1944 my dearest kitty, remember yesterday's date, since it was a red-letter day for me. isn't it an important day for every girl when she gets her first kiss? well then, it's no less important to me. the time bram kissed me on my right cheek or mr. woudstra on my right hand doesn't count. how did i suddenly come by this kiss? i'll tell you. last night at eight i was sitting with peter on his divan and it wasn't long before he put an arm around me. (since it was saturday, he wasn't wearing his overalls.)"why don t we move over a little," i said, "so won t keep bumping my head against the cupboard." he moved so far over he was practically in the corner. i slipped my arm under his and across his back, and he put his arm around my shoulder, so that i was nearly engulfed by him. we've sat like this on other occasions, but never so close as we were last night. he held me firmly against him, my left side against his chest; my heart had already begun to beat faster, but there was more to come. he wasn't satisfied until my head lay on his shoulder, with his on top of mine. i sat up again after about five minutes, but before long he took my head in his hands and put it back next to his. oh, it was so wonderful. i could hardly talk, my pleasure was too intense; he caressed my cheek and arm, a bit clumsily, and played with my hair. most of the time our heads were touching. i can't tell you, kitty, the feeling that ran through me. i was too happy for words, and i think he was too. at nine-thirty we stood up. peter put on his tennis shoes so he wouldn't make much noise on his nightly round of the building, and i was standing next to him. how i suddenly made the right movement, i don't know, but before we went downstairs, he gave me a. kiss, through my hair, half on my left cheek and half on my ear. i tore downstairs without looking back, and i long so much for today. sunday morning, just before eleven. yours, anne m. frank monday, april 17, 1944 dearest kitty, do you think father and mother would approve of a girl my age sitting on a divan and kissing a seventeen-and- a-half-year-old boy? i doubt they would, but i have to trust my own judgment in this matter. it's so peaceful and safe, lying in his arms and dreaming, it's so thrilling to feel his cheek against mine, it's so wonderful to know there's someone waiting for me. but, and there is a but, will peter want to leave it at that? i haven't forgotten his promise, but. . . he is a boy! i know i'm starting at a very young age. not even fifteen and already so independent -- that's a little hard for other people to understand. i'm pretty sure margot would never kiss a boy unless there was some talk of an engagement or marriage. neither peter nor i has any such plans. i'm also sure that mother never touched a man before she met father. what would my girlfriends or jacque say if they knew i'd lain in peter's arms with my heart against his chest, my head on his shoulder and his head and face against mine! oh, anne, how terribly shocking! but seriously, i don't think it's at all shocking; we're cooped up here, cut off from the world, anxious and fearful, especially lately. why should we stay apart when we love each other? why shouldn't we kiss each other in times like these? why should we wait until we've reached a suitable age? why should we ask anybody's permission? i've decided to look out for my own interests. he'd never want to hurt me or make me unhappy. why shouldn't i do what my heart tells me and makes both of us happy? yet i have a feeling, kitty, that you can sense my doubt. it must be my honesty rising in revolt against all this sneaking around. do you think it's my duty to tell father what i'm up to? do you think our secret should be shared with a third person? much of the beauty would be lost, but would it make me feel better inside? i'll bring it up with him. oh, yes, i still have so much i want to discuss with him, since i don't see the point of just cuddling. sharing our thoughts with each other requires a great deal of trust, but 