diary published for general readers. this new edition in no way affects the integrity of the old one originally edited by otto frank, which brought the diary and its message to millions of people. the task of compthng the expanded edition was given to the writer and translator mirjam pressler. otto frank's original selection has now been supplemented with passages from anne's a and b versions. mirjam pressler's definitive edition, approved by the anne frank-fonds, contains approximately 30 percent more material and is intended to give the reader more insight into the world of anne frank. in writing her second version (b), anne invented pseudonyms for the people who would appear in her book. she initially wanted to call herself anne aulis, and later anne robin. otto frank opted to call his family by their own names and to follow anne's wishes with regard to the others. over the years, the identity of the people who helped the family in the secret annex has become common knowledge. in this edition, the helpers are now referred to by their real names, as they so justly deserve to be. all other persons are named in accordance with the pseudonyms in the critical edition. the institute for war documentation has arbitrarily assigned initials to those persons wishing to remain anonymous. the real names of the other people hiding in the secret annex are: the van pels family (from osnabriick, germany): auguste van pels (born september 9, 1890) hermann van pels (born march 31, 1889) peter van pels (born november 8, 1926) called by anne, in her manuscript: petronella, hans and alfred van daan; and in the book: petronella, hermann and peter van daan. fritz pfeffer (born april 30, 1889, in giessen, germany): called by anne, in her manuscript and in the book: alfred dussel. the reader may wish to bear in mind that much of this edition is based on the b version of anne's diary, which she wrote when she was around fifteen years old. occasionally, anne went back and commented on a passage she had written earlier. these comments are clearly marked in this edition. naturally, anne's spelling and linguistic errors have been corrected. otherwise, the text has basically been left as she wrote it, since any attempts at editing and clarification would be inappropriate in a historical document. -- : -- i hope i will be able to confide everything to you, as i have never been able to confide in anyone, and i hope you will be a great source of comfort and support. -- : -- june 12, 1942 i hope i will be able to confide everything to you, as i have never been able to confide in anyone, and i hope you will be a great source of comfort and support. comment added by anne on september 28, 1942: so far you truly have been a areat source of comfort to me, and so has kitty, whom i now write to regularly. this way of keeping a diary is much nicer, and now i can hardly wait for those moments when i'm able to write in you. oh, i'm so alad i brought you along! sunday, june 14, 1942 i'll begin from the moment i got you, the moment i saw you lying on the table among my other birthday presents. (i went along when you were bought, but that doesn't count.) on friday, june 12, i was awake at six o'clock, which isn't surprising, since it was my birthday. but i'm not allowed to get up at that hour, so i had to control my curiosity until quarter to seven. when i couldn't wait any longer, i went to the dining room, where moortje (the cat) welcomed me by rubbing against my legs. a little after seven i went to daddy and mama and then to the living room to open my presents, and you were the first thing i saw, maybe one of my nicest presents. then a bouquet of roses, some peonies and a potted plant. from daddy and mama i got a blue blouse, a game, a bottle of grape juice, which to my mind tastes a bit like wine (after all, wine is made from grapes), a puzzle, a jar of cold cream, 2.50 guilders and a gift certificate for two books. i got another book as well, camera obscura (but margot already has it, so i exchanged mine for something else), a platter of homemade cookies (which i made myself, of course, since i've become quite an expert at baking cookies), lots of candy and a strawberry tart from mother. and a letter from grammy, right on time, but of course that was just a coincidence. then hanneli came to pick me up, and we went to school. during recess i passed out cookies to my teachers and my class, and then it was time to get back to work. i didn't arrive home until five, since i went to gym with the rest of the class. (i'm not allowed to take part because my shoulders and hips tend to get dislocated.) as it was my birthday, i got to decide which game my classmates would play, and i chose volleyball. afterward they all danced around me in a circle and sang "happy birthday." when i got home, sanne ledermann was already there. ilse wagner, hanneli goslar and jacqueline van maarsen came home with me after gym, since we're in the same class. hanneli and sanne used to be my two best friends. people who saw us together used to say, "there goes anne, hanne and sanne." i only met jacqueline van maarsen when i started at the jewish lyceum, and now she's my best friend. ilse is hanneli's best friend, and sanne goes to another school and has friends there. they gave me a beautiful book, dutch sasas and lesends, but they gave me volume ii by mistake, so i exchanged two other books for volume i. aunt helene 