thinks it's nice we get along so well. margot likes peter too, but feels that three people can't talk about the same things as two. furthermore, mother thinks peter's in love with me. to tell you the truth, i wish he were. then we'd be even, and it'd be a lot easier to get to know each other. she also claims he's always looking at me. well, i suppose we do give each other the occasional wink. but i can't help it if he keeps admiring my dimples, can i? i'm in a very difficult position. mother's against me and i'm against her. father turns a blind eye to the silent struggle between mother and me. mother is sad, because she still loves me, but i'm not at all unhappy, because she no longer means anything to me. as for peter. . . i don't want to give him up. he's so sweet and i admire him so much. he and i could have a really beautiful relationship, so why are the old folks poking their noses into our business again? fortu- nately, i'm used to hiding my feelings, so i manage not to show how crazy i am about him. is he ever going to say anything? am i ever going to feel his cheek against mine, the way i felt petel's cheek in my dream? oh, peter and petel, you're one and the same! they don't understand us; they'd never understand that we're content just to sit beside each other and not say a word. they have no idea of what draws us together! oh, when will we overcome all these difficulties? and yet it's good that we have to surmount them, since it makes the end that much more beautiful. when he lays his head on his arms and closes his eyes, he's still a child; when he plays with mouschi or talks about her, he's loving; when he carries the potatoes or other heavy loads, he's strong; when he goes to watch the gunfire or walks through the dark house to look for burglars, he's brave; and when he's so awkward and clumsy, he's hopelessly endearing. it's much nicer when he explains something to me than when i have to teach him. i wish he were superior to me in nearly every way! what do we care about our two mothers? oh, if only he'd say something. father always says i'm conceited, but i'm not, i'm merely vain! i haven't had many people tell me i was pretty, except for a boy at school who said i looked so cute when i smiled. yesterday peter paid me a true com- pliment, and just for fun i'll give you a rough idea of our conversation. peter often says, "smile!" i thought it was strange, so yesterday i asked him, "why do you always want me to smile?" "because you get dimples in your cheeks. how do you do that?" "i was born with them. there's also one in my chin. it's the only mark of beauty i possess." "no, no, that's not true!" "yes it is. i know i'm not beautiful. i never have been and i never will be!" "i don't agree. i think you're pretty." "i am not." "i say you are, and you'll have to take my word for it." so of course i then said the same about him. yours, anne m. frank wednesday, march 29, 1944 dearest kitty, mr. bolkestein, the cabinet minister, speaking on the dutch broadcast from london, said that after the war a collection would be made of diaries and letters dealing with the war. of course, everyone pounced on my diary. just imagine how interesting it would be if i were to publish a novel about the secret annex. the title alone would make people think it was a detective story. seriously, though, ten years after the war people would find it very amusing to read how we lived, what we ate and what we talked about as jews in hiding. although i tell you a great deal about our lives, you still know very little about us. how frightened the women are during air raids; last sunday, for instance, when 350 british planes dropped 550 tons of bombs on ijmuiden, so that the houses trembled like blades of grass in the wind. or how many epidemics are raging here. you know nothing of these matters, and it would take me all day to describe everything down to the last detail. people have to stand in line to buy vegetables and all kinds of goods; doctors can't visit their patients, since their cars and bikes are stolen the moment they turn their backs; burglaries and thefts are so common that you ask yourself what's suddenly gotten into the dutch to make them so light-fingered. little children, eight- and eleven- year-olds, smash the windows of people's homes and steal whatever they can lay their hands on. people don't dare leave the house for even five minutes, since they're liable to come back and find all their belongings gone. every day the newspapers are filled with reward notices for the return of stolen typewriters, persian rugs, electric clocks, fabrics, etc. the electric clocks on street corners are dismantled, public phones are stripped down to the last wire. morale among the dutch can't be good. everyone's hungry; except for the ersatz coffee, a week's food ration doesn't last two days. the invasion's long in coming, the men are being shipped off to germany, the children are sick or undernourished, everyone's wearing worn-out clothes and run-down shoes. a new sole costs 7.50 guil- ders on the black market. besides, few shoemakers will do repairs, or if they do, you have to wait four months for your shoes, which might very well have disappeared in the meantime. one good thing has come out of this: as the food gets worse and the decrees more severe, the acts of sabo- tage against the authorities 