from where i was standing, and could see he was obviously doing his best to chop the right way and show off his strength. but i also looked out the open window, letting my eyes roam over a large part of amsterdam, over the rooftops and on to the horizon, a strip of blue so pale it was almost invisible. "as long as this exists," i thought, "this sunshine and this cloudless sky, and as long as i can enjoy it, how can i be sad?" the best remedy for those who are frightened, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere they can be alone, alone with the sky, nature and god. for then and only then can you feel that everything is as it should be and that god wants people to be happy amid nature's beauty and simplicity. as long as this exists, and that should be forever, i know that there will be solace for every sorrow, whatever the circumstances. i firmly believe that nature can bring comfort to all who suffer. oh, who knows, perhaps it won't be long before i can share this overwhelming feeling of happiness with someone who feels the same as i do. yours, anne p.s. thoughts: to peter. we've been missing out on so much here, so very much, and for such a long time. i miss it just as much as you do. i'm not talking about external things, since we're well provided for in that sense; i mean the internal things. like you, i long for freedom and fresh air, but i think we've been amply compensated for their loss. on the inside, i mean. this morning, when i was sitting in front of the window and taking a long, deep look outside at god and nature, i was happy, just plain happy. peter, as long as people feel that kind of happiness within themselves, the joy of nature, health and much more besides, they'll always be able to recapture that happiness. riches, prestige, everything can be lost. but the happiness in your own heart can only be dimmed; it will always be there, as long as you live, to make you happy again. whenever you're feeling lonely or sad, try going to the loft on a beautiful day and looking outside. not at the houses and the rooftops, but at the sky. as long as you can look fearlessly at the sky, you'll know that you're pure within and will find happiness once more. sunday, february 27, 1944 my dearest kitty, from early in the morning to late at night, all i do is think about peter. i fall asleep with his image before my eyes, dream about him and wake up with him still looking at me. i have the strong feeling that peter and i aren't really as different as we may seem on the surface, and i'll explain why: neither peter nor i have a mother. his is too superficial, likes to flirt and doesn't concern herself much with what goes on in his head. mine takes an active interest in my life, but has no tact, sensitivity or motherly understanding. both peter and i are struggling with our innermost feelings. we're still unsure of ourselves and are too vulnerable, emotionally, to be dealt with so roughly. whenever that happens, i want to run outside or hide my feelings. instead, i bang the pots and pans, splash the water and am generally noisy, so that everyone wishes i were miles away. peter's reaction is to shut himself up, say little, sit quietly and daydream, all the while carefully hiding his true self. but how and when will we finally reach each other? i don't know how much longer i can continue to keep this yearning under control. yours, anne m. frank monday, february 28, 1944 my dearest kitty, it's like a nightmare, one that goes on long after i'm awake. i see him nearly every hour of the day and yet i can't be with him, i can't let the others notice, and i have to pretend to be cheerful, though my heart is aching. peter schiff and peter van daan have melted into one peter, who's good and kind and whom i long for desperately. mother's horrible, father's nice, which makes him even more exasperating, and margot's the worst, since she takes advantage of my smiling face to claim me for herself, when all i want is to be left alone. peter didn't join me in the attic, but went up to the loft to do some carpentry work. at every rasp and bang, another chunk of my courage broke off and i was even more unhappy. in the distance a clock was tolling' 'be pure in heart, be pure in mind!" i'm sentimental, i know. i'm despondent and foolish, i know that too. oh, help me! yours, anne m. frank wednesday, march 1, 1944 dearest kitty, my own affairs have been pushed to the background by . . . a break-in. i'm boring you with all my break-ins, but what can i do when burglars take such pleasure in honoring gies & go. with their presence? this incident is much more complicated than the last one, in july 1943. last night at seven-thirty mr. van daan was heading, as usual, for mr. kugler's office when he saw that both the glass door and the office door were open. he was surprised, but he went on through and was even more astonished to see that the alcove doors were open as well and that there was a terrible mess in the front office. "there's been a burglary" flashed through his mind. but just to make sure, he went downstairs to the front door, checked the lock and found everything closed. "bep and peter must just have been very careless this evening," mr. van. d. concluded. he remained for a while in mr. kugler's office, switched off the lamp and went upstairs without worrying 