escape was not working?" we explained the whole thing to him, about how we'd deliberately spread the rumor of the officer and the car to throw the germans and anyone else who might come looking for us off the track. mr. dussel was speechless in the face of such ingenuity, and could do nothing but gaze around in surprise as he explored the rest of our lovely and ultrapractical annex. we all had lunch together. then he took a short nap, joined us for tea, put away the few belongings miep had been able to bring here in advance and began to feel much more at home. especially when we handed him the following typewritten rules and regulations for the secret annex (a van daan production): prospectus and guide to the secret annex a unique facility for the temporary accommodation of jews and other dispossessed persons open all year round: located in beautiful, quiet, wooded surroundings in the heart of amsterdam. no private residences in the vicinity. can be reached by streetcar 13 or 17 and also by car and bicycle. for those to whom such transportation has been forbidden by the german authorities, it can also be reached on foot. furnished and unfurnished rooms and apartments are available at all times, with or without meals. price: free. diet: low-fat. runnina water in the bathroom (sorry, no bath) and on various inside and outside walls. cozy wood stoves for heating. ample storage space for a variety of goods. two large, modern safes. private radio with a direct line to london, new york, tel aviv and many other stations. available to all residents after 6 p.m. no listening to forbidden broadcasts, with certain exceptions, i.e., german stations may only be tuned in to listen to classical music. it is absolutely forbidden to listen to german news bulletins (regardless of where they are transmitted from) and to pass them on to others. rest hours: from 10 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.; 10:15 a.m. on sundays. owing to circumstances, residents are required to observe rest hours during the daytime when instructed to do so by the management. to ensure the safety of all, rest hours must be strictly observed!!! free-time activities: none allowed outside the house until further notice. use of language: it is necessary to speak softly at all times. only the language of civilized people may be spoken, thus no german. reading and relaxation: no german books may be read, except for the classics and works of a scholarly nature. other books are optional. calisthenics: daily. singing: only softly, and after 6 p.m. movies: prior arrangements required. classes: a weekly correspondence course in shorthand. courses in english, french, math and history offered at any hour of the day or night. payment in the form of tutoring, e.g., dutch. separate department for the care of small household pets (with the exception of vermin, for which special permits are required). mealtimes: breakfast: at 9 a.m. daily except holidays and sundays; at approximately 11:30 a.m. on sundays and holidays. lunch: a light meal. from 1:15 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. dinner: mayor not be a hot meal. mealtime depends on news broadcasts. obligations with respect to the supply corps: residents must be prepared to help with office work at all times. baths: the washtub is available to all residents after 9 a.m. on sundays. residents may bathe in the bathroom, kitchen, private office or front office, as they choose. alcohol: for medicinal purposes only. the end. yours, anne thursday, november 19, 1942 dearest kitty, just as we thought, mr. dussel is a very nice man. of course he didn't mind sharing a room with me; to be honest, i'm not exactly delighted at having a stranger use my things, but you have to make sacrifices for a good cause, and i'm glad i can make this small one. "if we can save even one of our friends, the rest doesn't matter," said father, and he's absolutely right. the first day mr. dussel was here, he asked me all sorts of questions -- for example, what time the cleaning lady comes to the office, how we've arranged to use the washroom and when we're allowed to go to the toilet. you may laugh, but these things aren't so easy in a hiding place. during the daytime we can't make any noise that might be heard downstairs, and when someone else is there, like the cleaning lady, we have to be extra careful. i patiently explained all this to mr. dussel, but i was surprised to see how slow he is to catch on. he asks everything twice and still can't remember what you've told him. maybe he's just confused by the sudden change and he'll get over it. otherwise, everything is going fine. mr. dussel has told us much about the outside world we've missed for so long. he had sad news. countless friends and acquaintances have been taken off to a dreadful fate. night after night, green and gray military vehicles cruise the streets. they knock on every door, asking whether any jews live there. if so, the whole family is immediately taken away. if not, they proceed to the next house. it's impossible to escape their clutches unless you go into hiding. they often go around with lists, knocking only on those doors where they know there's a big haul to be made. they frequently offer a bounty, so much per head. it's like the slave hunts of the olden days. i don't mean to make light ofthisj it's much too tragic for that. in the evenings when it's dark, i often see long lines of good, innocent people, accompanied by crying children, walking on and on, ordered about by a handful of men who bully and beat them until they nearly drop. no one is spared. the sick, the elderly, children, babies and pregnant women -- all are marched to their death. we're so fortunate here, away from the turmoil. we wouldn't have to 